



Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons - Wikipedia



























	
	
	
	
	
	Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons
	
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		
		
		
		
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Wikipedia policy on material about living persons
For policy on whether an individual is sufficiently noteworthy to have an article, see Wikipedia:Notability (people).
Report problems about particular biographical material on Wikipedia to the biographies of living persons noticeboard. See also §&nbsp;Dealing with articles about yourself, below.
This page documents an English Wikipedia policy.
It describes a widely accepted standard that all editors should normally follow. Changes made to it should reflect consensus.ShortcutsWP:BLPWP:LIVE
This page in a nutshell: Material about living persons added to any Wikipedia page must be written with the greatest care and attention to verifiability, neutrality, and avoidance of original research.
Do you find this page confusing? Do you need help?Just use this link to ask for help on your talk page; a volunteer will visit you there shortly!
  If you have a complaint about a biography of a living person, and you wish to contact the Wikimedia Foundation, see Contact us.


Editors must take particular care when adding information about living persons to any Wikipedia page.[a] Such material requires a high degree of sensitivity, and must adhere strictly to all applicable laws in the United States, to this policy, and to Wikipedia's three core content policies:

Neutral point of view (NPOV)
Verifiability (V)
No original research (NOR)


We must get the article right. Be very firm about the use of high-quality sources. All quotations and any material challenged or likely to be challenged must be supported by an inline citation to a reliable, published source. Contentious material about living persons (or, in some cases, recently deceased) that is unsourced or poorly sourced—whether the material is negative, positive, neutral, or just questionable—should be removed immediately and without waiting for discussion.[1] Users who persistently or egregiously violate this policy may be blocked from editing.


Biographies of living persons ("BLPs") must be written conservatively and with regard for the subject's privacy. Wikipedia is an encyclopedia, not a tabloid: it is not Wikipedia's job to be sensationalist, or to be the primary vehicle for the spread of titillating claims about people's lives; the possibility of harm to living subjects must always be considered when exercising editorial judgment. This policy applies to any living person mentioned in a BLP, whether or not that person is the subject of the article, and to material about living persons in other articles and on other pages, including talk pages.[b] The burden of evidence rests with the editor who adds or restores the material.


Core content policies
Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability

Other content policies
Article titles
Biographies of living persons
Image use policy
What Wikipedia is not
Wikipedia is not a dictionary
vte
Contents

1 Writing style

1.1 Tone
1.2 Balance
1.3 Attack pages


2 Reliable sources

2.1 Challenged or likely to be challenged
2.2 Avoid misuse of primary sources
2.3 Self-published sources

2.3.1 Avoid self-published sources
2.3.2 Using the subject as a self-published source


2.4 Avoid gossip and feedback loops
2.5 Remove contentious material that is unsourced or poorly sourced
2.6 Further reading, External links, and See also


3 Presumption in favor of privacy

3.1 Avoid victimization
3.2 Public figures
3.3 People who are relatively unknown
3.4 Privacy of personal information and using primary sources
3.5 Subjects notable only for one event
3.6 People accused of crime
3.7 Privacy of names


4 Using BLPs to continue disputes
5 Applicability of the policy

5.1 Non-article space
5.2 Usernames
5.3 Images
5.4 Categories, lists, and navigation templates
5.5 Deceased persons, corporations, or groups of persons

5.5.1 Recently dead or probably dead
5.5.2 Legal persons and groups




6 Maintenance of BLPs

6.1 Importance of maintenance
6.2 Templates


7 Relationship between the subject, the article, and Wikipedia

7.1 Dealing with edits by the subject of the article
7.2 Dealing with articles about yourself
7.3 Legal issues
7.4 How to contact the Wikimedia Foundation
7.5 Wikimedia Foundation resolution


8 Role of administrators

8.1 Page protection, blocks
8.2 Discretionary sanctions
8.3 Deletion of BLPs

8.3.1 Summary deletion, creation prevention, and courtesy blanking
8.3.2 Deletion of BLPs of relatively unknown subjects
8.3.3 Restoring deleted content
8.3.4 Proposed deletion of biographies of living people




9 See also

9.1 Foundation policies and resolutions
9.2 Arbitration cases
9.3 Policies
9.4 Guidelines
9.5 Requests for comment
9.6 FAQs
9.7 Essays
9.8 Discussion forums
9.9 Related pages


10 Notes
11 References
12 Further reading



Writing style
ShortcutWP:BLPSTYLE
Tone


BLPs should be written responsibly, cautiously, and in a dispassionate tone, avoiding both understatement and overstatement. Articles should document in a non-partisan manner what reliable secondary sources have published about the subjects, and in some circumstances what the subjects have published about themselves. Summarize how actions and achievements are characterized by reliable sources without giving undue weight to recent events. Do not label people with contentious labels, loaded language, or terms that lack precision, unless a person is commonly described that way in reliable sources. Instead use clear, direct language and let facts alone do the talking.

Balance
ShortcutWP:BLPBALANCE
Further information: Wikipedia:Coatrack articles


Criticism and praise should be included if they can be sourced to reliable secondary sources, so long as the material is presented responsibly, conservatively, and in a disinterested tone. Do not give disproportionate space to particular viewpoints; the views of small minorities should not be included at all. Care must be taken with article structure to ensure the overall presentation and section headings are broadly neutral. Beware of claims that rely on guilt by association, and biased, malicious or overly promotional content.


The idea expressed in Eventualism—that every Wikipedia article is a work in progress, and that it is therefore okay for an article to be temporarily unbalanced because it will eventually be brought into shape—does not apply to biographies. Given their potential impact on biography subjects' lives, biographies must be fair to their subjects at all times.

Attack pages
Further information: Wikipedia:Attack pages and Wikipedia:Criteria for speedy deletion §&nbsp;G10


Pages that are unsourced and negative in tone, especially when they appear to have been created primarily to disparage the subject, should be deleted at once if there is no policy-compliant version to revert to; see §&nbsp;Summary deletion, creation prevention, and courtesy blanking, below. Non-administrators should tag them with {{db-attack}} or {{db-negublp}}. Creation of such pages, especially when repeated or in bad faith, is grounds for immediate blocking.

Reliable sources
ShortcutsWP:BLPRSWP:BLPSOURCESWP:BLPSOURCE
 Challenged or likely to be challenged
Main page: Wikipedia:Verifiability §&nbsp;Reliable sources


Wikipedia's sourcing policy, Verifiability, says that all quotations and any material challenged or likely to be challenged must be attributed to a reliable, published source using an inline citation; material not meeting this standard may be removed. This policy extends that principle, adding that contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced should be removed immediately and without discussion. This applies whether the material is negative, positive, neutral, or just questionable and whether it is in a biography or in some other article. The material should not be added to an article when the only sourcing is tabloid journalism. When material is both verifiable and noteworthy, it will have appeared in more reliable sources.

 Avoid misuse of primary sources
Further information: Wikipedia:No original research §&nbsp;Primary
ShortcutWP:BLPPRIMARY


Exercise extreme caution in using primary sources. Do not use trial transcripts and other court records, or other public documents, to support assertions about a living person. Do not use public records that include personal details, such as date of birth, home value, traffic citations, vehicle registrations, and home or business addresses. Where primary-source material has been discussed by a reliable secondary source, it may be acceptable to rely on it to augment the secondary source, subject to the restrictions of this policy, no original research, and the other sourcing policies.[c]

Self-published sources
Avoid self-published sources




ShortcutWP:BLPSPS


Never use self-published sources—including but not limited to books, zines, websites, blogs, and tweets—as sources of material about a living person, unless written or published by the subject of the article. "Self-published blogs" in this context refers to personal and group blogs. Some news organizations host online columns that they call blogs, and these may be acceptable as sources so long as the writers are professionals and the blog is subject to the newspaper's full editorial control. Posts left by readers are never acceptable as sources. See §&nbsp;Images below for our policy on self-published images.

Using the subject as a self-published source
ShortcutWP:BLPSELFPUB
Further information: Wikipedia:Verifiability §&nbsp;Self-published sources


There are living persons who publish material about themselves, such as through press releases or personal websites. Such material may be used as a source only if:

it is not unduly self-serving;
it does not involve claims about third parties;
it does not involve claims about events not directly related to the subject;
there is no reasonable doubt as to its authenticity; and
the article is not based primarily on such sources.
Avoid gossip and feedback loops
ShortcutWP:BLPGOSSIP
See also: Wikipedia is not a newspaper and Wikipedia:Identifying reliable sources §&nbsp;Breaking news


Avoid repeating gossip. Ask yourself whether the source is reliable; whether the material is being presented as true; and whether, even if true, it is relevant to a disinterested article about the subject. Be wary of relying on sources that use weasel words and that attribute material to anonymous sources. Also beware of circular reporting, in which material in a Wikipedia article gets picked up by a source, which is later cited in the Wikipedia article to support the original edit.

Remove contentious material that is unsourced or poorly sourced
ShortcutsWP:GRAPEVINEWP:BLPREMOVE
See also: Wikipedia:Libel


Remove immediately any contentious material about a living person that:

is unsourced or poorly sourced;
is an original interpretation or analysis of a source, or a synthesis of sources (see also Wikipedia:No original research);
relies on self-published sources, unless written by the subject of the BLP (see §&nbsp;Using the subject as a self-published source, above); or
relies on sources that fail in some other way to meet verifiability standards.


Note that, although the three-revert rule does not apply to such removals, what counts as exempt under BLP can be controversial. Editors who find themselves in edit wars over potentially defamatory material about living persons should consider raising the matter at the biographies of living persons noticeboard instead of relying on the exemption.


Administrators may enforce the removal of clear BLP violations with page protection or by blocking the violator(s), even if they have been editing the article themselves or are in some other way involved. In less clear cases they should request the attention of an uninvolved administrator at the administrators' noticeboard/Incidents page. See §&nbsp;Role of administrators, below.

 Further reading, External links, and See also
ShortcutsWP:BLPELWP:BLPFRWP:BLPSEEALSO


External links about living persons, whether in BLPs or elsewhere, are held to a higher standard than for other topics. Questionable or self-published sources should not be included in the "Further reading" or "External links" sections of BLPs, and, when including such links in other articles, make sure the material linked to does not violate this policy. Self-published sources written or published by the subject of a BLP may be included in the "Further reading" or "External links" sections of that BLP with caution (see §&nbsp;Using the subject as a self-published source, above). In general, do not link to websites that contradict the spirit of this policy or violate the external links guideline. Where that guideline is inconsistent with this or any other policy, the policies prevail.


"See also" links, whether placed in their own section or in a note within the text, should not be used to imply any contentious labeling, association, or claim regarding a living person, and must adhere to Wikipedia's policy of no original research.

Presumption in favor of privacy
Avoid victimization
ShortcutWP:AVOIDVICTIM


When writing about a person noteworthy only for one or two events, including every detail can lead to problems—even when the material is well sourced. When in doubt, biographies should be pared back to a version that is completely sourced, neutral, and on-topic. This is of particular importance when dealing with living individuals whose notability stems largely or entirely from being victims of another's actions. Wikipedia editors must not act, intentionally or otherwise, in a way that amounts to participating in or prolonging the victimization.

Public figures
ShortcutsWP:PUBLICFIGUREWP:WELLKNOWNWP:BLPPUBLIC
See also: Wikipedia:Who is a low-profile individual


In the case of public figures, there will be a multitude of reliable published sources, and BLPs should simply document what these sources say. If an allegation or incident is noteworthy, relevant, and well documented, it belongs in the article—even if it is negative and the subject dislikes all mention of it. If you cannot find multiple reliable third-party sources documenting the allegation or incident, leave it out.

Example: "John Doe had a messy divorce from Jane Doe." Is the divorce important to the article, and was it published by third-party reliable sources? If not, leave it out. If so, avoid use of "messy" and stick to the facts: "John Doe and Jane Doe divorced."
Example: A politician is alleged to have had an affair. It is denied, but multiple major newspapers publish the allegations, and there is a public scandal. The allegation belongs in the biography, citing those sources. However, it should state only that the politician was alleged to have had the affair, not that the affair actually occurred.


If the subject has denied such allegations, their denial(s) should also be reported, while adhering to appropriate due weight of all sources covering the subject and avoiding false balance.

 People who are relatively unknown
"WP:NPF" redirects here. For information regarding newly created pages on Wikipedia ("New Pages Feed"), see Wikipedia:Page Curation.
See also: Wikipedia:Who is a low-profile individual
ShortcutsWP:NOTPUBLICFIGUREWP:NPF


Many Wikipedia articles contain material on people who are not well known, even if they are notable enough for their own article. In such cases, exercise restraint and include only material relevant to the person's notability, focusing on high-quality secondary sources. Material published by the subject may be used, but with caution (see §&nbsp;Using the subject as a self-published source, above). Material that may adversely affect a person's reputation should be treated with special care; in many jurisdictions, repeating a defamatory claim is actionable, and there are additional protections for subjects who are not public figures.

Privacy of personal information and using primary sources
ShortcutsWP:BLPPRIVACYWP:DOB
See also: §&nbsp;Privacy of names


With identity theft a serious ongoing concern, many people regard their full names and dates of birth as private. Wikipedia includes full names and dates of birth that have been widely published by reliable sources, or by sources linked to the subject such that it may reasonably be inferred that the subject does not object to the details being made public. If a subject complains about our inclusion of their date of birth, or the person is borderline notable, err on the side of caution and simply list the year, provided that there is a reliable source for it. In a similar vein, articles should not include postal addresses, e-mail addresses, telephone numbers, or other contact information for living persons, although links to websites maintained by the subject are generally permitted. See §&nbsp;Avoid misuse of primary sources regarding the misuse of primary sources to obtain personal information about subjects.


Consensus has indicated that the standard for inclusion of personal information of living persons is higher than mere existence of a reliable source that could be verified.[2]


If there is a situation in which multiple different independent reliable sources state differing years or dates of birth in conflict, consensus has been found to include all birth dates/years for which a reliable source exists, clearly noting discrepancies. In this situation, editors may not include only one date/year for which they consider "most likely". In this situation, editors may not include merely a single date from one of two or more reliable sources. Original research cannot be used to extrapolate the date of birth.[3]


If you see personal information such as phone numbers, addresses, account numbers, etc. in a BLP or anywhere on Wikipedia, edit the page to remove it and  contact the oversight team so that they can evaluate it and possibly remove it from the page history. To reduce the chances of triggering the Streisand effect, use a bland/generic edit summary and do not mention that you will be requesting Oversight.


A verified social media account of an adult article subject saying about themselves something along the lines of "today is my 50th birthday" falls under self-published sources for purposes of reporting a full date of birth. It is usable if there is no reason to doubt it.[4]

Subjects notable only for one event
ShortcutWP:BLP1E
Further information: Wikipedia:Notability (people) §&nbsp;People notable for only one event, and Wikipedia:What BLP1E is not


Wikipedia is not news, or an indiscriminate collection of information. Being in the news does not in itself mean that someone should be the subject of a Wikipedia article. We generally should avoid having an article on a person when each of three conditions is met:

If reliable sources cover the person only in the context of a single event.
If that person otherwise remains, and is likely to remain, a low-profile individual. Biographies in these cases can give undue weight to the event and conflict with neutral point of view. In such cases, it is usually better to merge the information and redirect the person's name to the event article.
If the event is not significant or the individual's role was either not substantial or not well documented. John Hinckley Jr., for example, has a separate article because the single event he was associated with, the Reagan assassination attempt, was significant and his role was both substantial and well documented.


The significance of an event or the individual's role is indicated by how persistent the coverage is in reliable sources. It is important for editors to understand two clear differentiations of the people notable for only one event guideline (WP:BIO1E) when compared with this policy (WP:BLP1E): WP:BLP1E should be applied only to biographies of living people, or those who have recently died, and to biographies of low-profile individuals.


In addition, some subject-specific notability guidelines, such as Wikipedia:Notability (sports), provide criteria that may support the notability of certain individuals who are known chiefly for one event.

 People accused of crime
See also: Wikipedia:Notability (events) §&nbsp;Criminal acts, and Wikipedia:Notability (people) §&nbsp;Crime victims and perpetratorsShortcutsWP:BLPCRIMEWP:SUSPECT


A living person accused of a crime is presumed innocent until convicted by a court of law. Accusations, investigations and arrests do not amount to a conviction. For individuals who are not public figures; that is, individuals not covered by §&nbsp;Public figures, editors must seriously consider not including material—in any article—that suggests the person has committed, or is accused of having committed, a crime, unless a conviction has been secured.


If different judicial proceedings result in seemingly contradictory outcomes that do not overrule each other,[d] include sufficient explanatory information.

Privacy of names
ShortcutsWP:BLPNAMEWP:LPNAME


Caution should be applied when identifying individuals who are discussed primarily in terms of a single event. When the name of a private individual has not been widely disseminated or has been intentionally concealed, such as in certain court cases or occupations, it is often preferable to omit it, especially when doing so does not result in a significant loss of context. When deciding whether to include a name, its publication in secondary sources other than news media, such as scholarly journals or the work of recognized experts, should be afforded greater weight than the brief appearance of names in news stories. Consider whether the inclusion of names of living private individuals who are not directly involved in an article's topic adds significant value.


The presumption in favor of privacy is strong in the case of family members of articles' subjects and other loosely involved, otherwise low-profile persons. The names of any immediate, former, or significant family members or any significant relationship of the subject of a BLP may be part of an article, if reliably sourced, subject to editorial discretion that such information is relevant to a reader's complete understanding of the subject. However, names of family members who are not also notable public figures must be removed from an article if they are not properly sourced.

 Using BLPs to continue disputes
ShortcutWP:BLPCOI


Wikipedia articles concerning living persons may include material—where relevant, properly weighted, and reliably sourced—about controversies or disputes in which the article subject has been involved. Wikipedia is not a forum provided for parties to off-wiki disputes to continue their hostilities. Experience has shown that misusing Wikipedia to perpetuate legal, political, social, literary, scholarly, or other disputes is harmful to the subjects of biographical articles, to other parties in the dispute, and to Wikipedia itself.


Therefore, an editor who is involved in a significant controversy or dispute with another individual—whether on- or off-wiki—or who is an avowed rival of that individual, should not edit that person's biography or other material about that person, given the potential conflict of interest. More generally, editors who have a strongly negative or positive view of the subject of a biographical article should be especially careful to edit that article neutrally, if they choose to edit it at all.[e]

Applicability of the policy


BLP applies to all material about living persons anywhere on Wikipedia, including talk pages, edit summaries, user pages, images, categories, lists, article titles and drafts.

Non-article space
ShortcutWP:BLPTALK


Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced and not related to making content choices should be removed, deleted, or oversighted, as appropriate. When seeking advice about whether to publish something about a living person, be careful not to post so much information on the talk page that the inquiry becomes moot.  For example, it would be appropriate to begin a discussion by stating This link has serious allegations about subject; should we summarize this someplace in the article?  The same principle applies to problematic images. Questionable claims already discussed can be removed with a reference to the previous discussion.


The BLP policy also applies to user and user talk pages. The single exception is that users may make any claim they wish about themselves in their user space, so long as they are not engaged in impersonation, and subject to what Wikipedia is not, though minors are discouraged from disclosing identifying personal information on their userpages; for more information, see here.[f] Although this policy applies to posts about Wikipedians in project space, some leeway is permitted to allow the handling of administrative issues by the community, but administrators may delete such material if it rises to the level of defamation, or if it constitutes a violation of no personal attacks.

 Usernames
See also: Wikipedia:Username policy §&nbsp;Usernames violating the BLP policyShortcutWP:BLPNAMEABUSE


Disruptive and offensive usernames (for example, names containing contentious material about living persons, or that are clearly abusive towards any race, religion or social group) should be immediately blocked and suppressed from logs. Requests for removing attack usernames from logs should be reported to the oversight team for evaluation.

Images
Further information: Wikipedia:No original research §&nbsp;Original images
ShortcutsWP:MUGWP:BLPIMAGE


Images of living persons should not be used out of context to present a person in a false or disparaging light. This is particularly important for police booking photographs (mugshots), or situations where the subject did not expect to be photographed. Any police photograph used to imply that the person depicted was charged with or convicted of a specific crime must be sourced to a top-quality reliable source with a widely acknowledged reputation for fact-checking and accuracy that links the relevant image to the specific incident or crime in question.


Images of living persons that have been created by Wikipedians or others may be used only if they have been released under a copyright licence that is compatible with Wikipedia:Image use policy.

Categories, lists, and navigation templates
ShortcutWP:BLPCAT
See also: Wikipedia:Categorization of people; Wikipedia:Categories, lists, and navigation templates; Wikipedia:Categorization/Ethnicity, gender, religion and sexuality; and Wikipedia:Eponymous overcategorization


Category names do not carry disclaimers or modifiers, so the case for each content category must be made clear by the article text and its reliable sources. Categories regarding religious beliefs (or lack of such) or sexual orientation should not be used unless the subject has publicly self-identified with the belief (or lack of such) or orientation in question, and the subject's beliefs or sexual orientation are relevant to their public life or notability, according to reliable published sources.

ShortcutsWP:BLPCRIMINALWP:BLPRACIST





Caution should be used with content categories that suggest a person has a poor reputation (see false light). For example, Category:Criminals and its subcategories should be added only for an incident that is relevant to the person's notability; the incident was published by reliable third-party sources; the subject was convicted; and the conviction was not overturned on appeal. In particular, do not categorize biographies of living people under such contentious topics as racism, sexism, extremism, and the like, since these have the effect of labeling a person as a racist, sexist, or extremist. (See also Wikipedia:Overcategorization §&nbsp;Subjective inclusion criteria and Wikipedia:Overcategorization §&nbsp;Opinion about a question or issue.)


These principles apply equally to lists, navigation templates, and {{Infobox}} statements (referring to living persons within any Wikipedia page) that are based on religious beliefs (or lack of such) or sexual orientation or suggest that any living person has a poor reputation.  This policy does not limit the use of administrative categories for WikiProjects, article clean-up, or other normal editor activities.

Deceased persons, corporations, or groups of persons
Recently dead or probably dead
ShortcutWP:BDP


Anyone born within the past 115 years (on or after 29 November 1906 [update]) is covered by this policy unless a reliable source has confirmed their death. Generally, this policy does not apply to material concerning people who are confirmed dead by reliable sources. The only exception would be for people who have recently died, in which case the policy can extend based on editorial consensus for an indeterminate period beyond the date of death—six months, one year, two years at the outside. Such extensions would only apply particularly to contentious or questionable material about the subject that has implications for their living relatives and friends, such as in the case of a possible suicide or a particularly gruesome crime. Even absent confirmation of death, for the purposes of this policy anyone born more than 115 years ago is presumed dead unless reliable sources confirm the person to have been living within the past two years. If the date of birth is unknown, editors should use reasonable judgement to infer—from dates of events noted in the article—if it is plausible that the person was born within the last 115 years and is therefore covered by this policy.

Legal persons and groups
ShortcutWP:BLPGROUP


This policy does not normally apply to material about corporations, companies, or other entities regarded as legal persons, though any such material must be written in accordance with other content policies. The extent to which the BLP policy applies to edits about groups is complex and must be judged on a case-by-case basis. A harmful statement about a small group or organization comes closer to being a BLP problem than a similar statement about a larger group; and when the group is very small, it may be impossible to draw a distinction between the group and the individuals that make up the group.  When in doubt, make sure you are using high-quality sources.

Maintenance of BLPs
Importance of maintenance
Report BLP incidents at the biographies of living persons noticeboard.


Wikipedia contains hundreds of thousands of articles about living persons. From both a legal and ethical standpoint it is essential that a determined effort be made to eliminate defamatory and other inappropriate material from these articles, but these concerns must be balanced against other concerns, such as allowing articles to show a bias in the subject's favor by removing appropriate material simply because the subject objects to it, or allowing articles about non-notable publicity-seekers to be retained. When in doubt about whether material in a BLP is appropriate, the article should be pared back to a policy-compliant version. Sometimes the use of administrative tools such as page protection and deletion is necessary for the enforcement of this policy, and in extreme cases action by Wikimedia Foundation staff is required.

 Templates


{{BLP}} alerting readers to this policy may be added to the talk pages of BLPs and other articles that focus on living persons. {{Blpo}} is suitable for articles containing material on the deceased that also contains material about living persons.  If a {{WikiProject Biography}} template is present, you can add |living=yes to the template parameters. If a {{WikiProject banner shell}} template is also present, add |blp=yes to it.


For articles, {{BLP dispute}} may be used on BLPs needing attention; {{BLP sources}} on BLPs needing better sourcing (an alternative is {{BLP primary sources}}); and {{BLP unsourced}} for those with no sources at all. {{BLP noticeboard}} should be placed on the talk page of BLP articles that are being discussed on the biographies of living persons noticeboard.


For editors violating this policy, the following can be used to warn them on their talk pages:

{{uw-biog1}}
{{uw-biog2}}
{{uw-biog3}}
{{uw-biog4}}
{{uw-biog4im}}
{{uw-bioblock}} for when a block is issued


The template {{BLP removal}} can be used on the talk page of an article to explain why material has been removed under this policy, and under what conditions the material may be replaced.

Relationship between the subject, the article, and Wikipedia
Dealing with edits by the subject of the article
ShortcutsWP:BLPEDITWP:BLPKINDWP:BLPKINDNESS


Subjects sometimes become involved in editing material about themselves, either directly or through a representative. The Arbitration Committee has ruled in favor of showing leniency to BLP subjects who try to fix what they see as errors or unfair material. Editors should make every effort to act with kindness toward the subjects of biographical material when the subjects arrive to express concern.


Although Wikipedia discourages people from writing about themselves, removal of unsourced or poorly sourced material is acceptable. When an anonymous editor blanks all or part of a BLP, this might be the subject attempting to remove problematic material. Edits like these by subjects should not be treated as vandalism; instead, the subject should be  invited to explain their concerns. The Arbitration Committee established the following principle in December 2005:





Wikipedia:Please do not bite the newcomers, a guideline, advises Wikipedia users to consider the obvious fact that new users of Wikipedia will do things wrong from time to time. For those who either have or might have an article about themselves, there is a temptation—especially if apparently wrong or strongly negative information is included in such an article—to become involved in questions regarding their own article. This can open the door to rather immature behavior and loss of dignity for the new user. It is a violation of don't bite the newbies to strongly criticize users who fall into this trap, rather than see this phenomenon as a new editor mistake.[5]



Dealing with articles about yourself
ShortcutsWP:BIOSELFWP:BLPSELFWP:BLPCOMPLAINWP:BLPCOMPLAINT
Further information: Wikipedia:Autobiography §&nbsp;Problems in an article about you


Wikipedia has editorial policies that will often help to resolve your concern, as well as many users willing to help and a wide range of escalation processes. Very obvious errors can be fixed quickly, including by yourself. But beyond that, post suggestions on the article talk page (see Help:Talk pages), or place {{help me}} on your user talk page. You may also post an explanation of your concern on the biographies of living persons noticeboard and ask that uninvolved editors evaluate the article to make sure it is fairly written and properly sourced.


If you are an article subject and you find the article about you contains your personal information or potentially libelous statements, contact the oversight team so that they can evaluate the issue and possibly remove it from the page history.


Please bear in mind that Wikipedia is almost entirely operated by volunteers; impolite behavior, even if entirely understandable, will often be less effective.

Legal issues


Subjects who have legal or other serious concerns about material they find about themselves on a Wikipedia page, whether in a BLP or elsewhere, may contact the Wikimedia Foundation's volunteer response team (known as OTRS). Please e-mail
info-en-qwikimedia.org with a link to the article and details of the problem; for more information on how to get an error corrected, see here. It is usually better to ask for help rather than trying to change the material yourself.


As noted above, individuals involved in a significant legal or other off-wiki dispute with the subject of a biographical article are strongly discouraged from editing that article.

How to contact the Wikimedia Foundation
  Contact us
See also: Wikimedia Foundation


If you are not satisfied with the response of editors and admins to a concern about biographical material about living persons, you can contact the Wikimedia Foundation directly. See Contact us for details.

Wikimedia Foundation resolution
Further information: Foundation:Resolution:Biographies of living people


On April 9, 2009, the Wikimedia Foundation's Board of Trustees passed a resolution regarding Wikimedia's handling of material about living persons. It noted that there are problems with some BLPs being overly promotional in tone, being vandalized, and containing errors and smears. The Foundation urges that special attention be paid to neutrality and verifiability regarding living persons; that human dignity and personal privacy be taken into account, especially in articles of ephemeral or marginal interest; and that anyone who has a complaint about how they are described on the project's websites be treated with patience, kindness, and respect.

Role of administrators
ShortcutWP:BLPADMINS
Page protection, blocks


Administrators who suspect malicious or biased editing, or believe that inappropriate material may be added or restored, may protect or semi-protect pages. Administrators may enforce the removal of clear BLP violations with page protection or by blocking the violator(s), even if they have been editing the article themselves or are in some other way involved. In less clear cases, they should request the attention of an uninvolved administrator at Wikipedia:Administrators Noticeboard/Incidents.


See §&nbsp;Templates for appropriate templates to use when warning or blocking for BLP violations.

Discretionary sanctions
ShortcutWP:BLPDS


Editors are also subject to Wikipedia:Arbitration Committee/Discretionary sanctions pursuant to WP:NEWBLPBAN, which in May 2014 authorized the application of discretionary sanctions to "any edit in any article with biographical content relating to living or recently deceased people or any edit relating to the subject (living or recently deceased) of such biographical articles on any page in any namespace." The discretionary sanctions allow administrators to apply topic bans and other measures that may not be reverted without community consensus or the agreement of the enforcing administrator.

Deletion of BLPs
ShortcutsWP:BLPDELWP:BLPDELETE
Summary deletion, creation prevention, and courtesy blanking
Further information: Wikipedia:Deletion policy §&nbsp;Deletion of biographies and BLPs


Biographical material about a living individual that is not compliant with this policy should be improved and rectified; if this is not possible, then it should be removed. If the entire page is substantially of poor quality, primarily containing contentious material that is unsourced or poorly sourced, then it may be necessary to delete the entire page as an initial step, followed by discussion.


Page deletion is normally a last resort. If a dispute centers around a page's inclusion (e.g., because of questionable notability or where the subject has requested deletion), this is addressed via deletion discussions rather than by summary deletion. Summary deletion is appropriate when the page contains unsourced negative material or is written non-neutrally, and when this cannot readily be rewritten or restored to an earlier version of an acceptable standard. The deleting administrator should be prepared to explain the action to others, by e-mail if the material is sensitive. Those who object to the deletion should bear in mind that the deleting admin may be aware of issues that others are not. Disputes may be taken to deletion review, but protracted public discussion should be avoided for deletions involving sensitive personal material about living persons, particularly if it is negative. Such debates may be courtesy blanked upon conclusion. After the deletion, any administrator may choose to protect it against re-creation. Even if the page is not protected against re-creation, it should not be re-created unless a consensus is demonstrated in support of re-creation.

Deletion of BLPs of relatively unknown subjects
Further information: Wikipedia:Deletion policy §&nbsp;Deletion of biographies and BLPs
ShortcutWP:BLPREQUESTDELETE


Where the living subject of a biographical article has requested deletion, the deletion policy says: "Discussions concerning biographical articles of relatively unknown, non-public figures, where the subject has requested deletion and there is no rough consensus, may be closed as delete." In addition, it says: "Poorly sourced biographical articles of unknown, non-public figures, where the discussions have no editor opposing the deletion, may be deleted after discussions have been completed."

Restoring deleted content
ShortcutsWP:BLPUNDELWP:BLPREQUESTRESTORE


To ensure that material about living people is written neutrally to a high standard, and based on high-quality reliable sources, the burden of proof is on those who wish to retain, restore, or undelete the disputed material.
When material about living persons has been deleted on good-faith BLP objections, any editor wishing to add, restore, or undelete it must ensure it complies with Wikipedia's content policies. If it is to be restored without significant change, consensus must be obtained first. Material that has been repaired to address concerns should be judged on a case-by-case basis.


In the case of an administrator deleting a complete article, wherever possible such disputed deletions should be discussed first with the administrator who deleted the article.

Proposed deletion of biographies of living people
Further information: Wikipedia:Proposed deletion of biographies of living people


All BLPs must have at least one source that supports at least one statement made about the person in the article, or it may be proposed for deletion. The tag may not be removed until a reliable source is provided, and if none is forthcoming, the article may be deleted after seven days. This does not affect other deletion processes mentioned in BLP policy and elsewhere.

See also



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Template:Personality rights.




This page is referenced in the Wikipedia Glossary.



Foundation policies and resolutions
Wikimedia Foundation privacy policy
Wikimedia Foundation resolution on biographies of living persons, amended November 2013.
Arbitration cases
Wikipedia:Requests for arbitration/Badlydrawnjeff, July 2007.
Wikipedia:Requests for arbitration/Editing of BLP § Biographies of living persons, June 2008.
Arbitration Committee/Motion regarding BLP deletions, January 2010.
Wikipedia:Arbitration/Requests/Case/Manipulation of BLPs, September 2011.
Policies
Attack page
Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability
What Wikipedia is not
Guidelines
Autobiography
Conflict of interest
Fringe theories § Treatment of living persons
Manual of Style/Biography
Notability (people)
Requests for comment
Requests for comment/Biographies of living people—Phase I; Phase II
FAQs
FAQ/Article subjects
FAQ/Organizations
Essays
See also: Category:User essays on BLP
An article about yourself isn't necessarily a good thing
Avoiding harm
Coatrack articles
Criticism
Minors and persons judged incompetent
Signatures of living persons
Verifiable but not false
Discussion forums
Biographies of living persons/Noticeboard
WikiProject Deletion sorting/Living people
Related pages
Wikipedia:Requested articles/Biography
Wikipedia:Unreferenced BLP Rescue

Notes


^ People are presumed to be living unless there is reason to believe otherwise. This policy does not apply to people declared dead in absentia.

^ For examples of arbitration cases that refer to this policy's parameters, see:
Rachel Marsden case, 28 November 2006: "Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons applies to all living persons in an entry, not merely the subject of the entry."


Manning naming dispute, 16 October 2013: "The biographies of living persons policy applies to all references to living persons throughout Wikipedia, including the titles of articles and pages and all other portions of any page."


^ Please note that exceptional claims require exceptional sources.

^ For example, O. J. Simpson was acquitted in 1995 of the murder of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman, but was found liable for their wrongful deaths in a civil trial two years later.

^ The Columbia Center for New Media Teaching and Learning, Columbia University: "A conflict of interest involves the abuse&nbsp;– actual, apparent, or potential&nbsp;– of the trust that people have in professionals. The simplest working definition states: A conflict of interest is a situation in which financial or other personal considerations have the potential to compromise or bias professional judgment and objectivity. An apparent conflict of interest is one in which a reasonable person would think that the professional's judgment is likely to be compromised. A potential conflict of interest involves a situation that may develop into an actual conflict of interest. It is important to note that a conflict of interest exists whether or not decisions are affected by a personal interest; a conflict of interest implies only the potential for bias, not a likelihood. It is also important to note that a conflict of interest is not considered misconduct in research, since the definition for misconduct is currently limited to fabrication, falsification, and plagiarism."


The New York Times Company: "Conflicts of interest, real or apparent, may arise in many areas. They may involve tensions between journalists' professional obligations to our audience and their relationships with news sources, advocacy groups, advertisers, or competitors; with one another; or with the company or one of its units. And at a time when two-career families are the norm, the civic and professional activities of spouses, household members and other relatives can create conflicts or the appearance of them."


^ See Wikipedia:Credentials and its talk page.


References


^ Wales, Jimmy (16 May 2006). "Zero information is preferred to misleading or false information". WikiEN-l (Mailing list). Wikimedia Foundation. Archived from the original on 22 June 2018. Retrieved 22 June 2018. It should be removed, aggressively, unless it can be sourced. This is true of all information, but it is particularly true of negative information about living persons.Wales, Jimmy (19 May 2006). "Zero information is preferred to misleading or false information". WikiEN-l (Mailing list). Wikimedia Foundation. Archived from the original on 22 June 2018. Retrieved 22 June 2018. If you see an unsourced statement that would be libel if false, and it makes you feel suspicious enough to want to tag it as {{citation needed}}, please do not do that! Please just remove the statement and ask a question on the talk page.Wales, Jimmy (4 August 2006). "Archives/Jimbo Keynote". Wikimania 2006. Wikimedia Foundation. Archived from the original on 8 August 2006. Retrieved 22 June 2018. One of the social things that I think we can do is WP:BIO&nbsp;[...] I think social policies have evolved in recent years, I mean the recent months, to actually handle this problem a lot better. A lot of the admins and experienced editors are taking a really strong stand against unsourced claims, which is always a typical example of the problem.&nbsp;[...] And the few people who are still sort of in the old days, saying, 'Well, you know, it's a wiki, why don't we just... ', yeah, they're sort of falling by the wayside, because lots of people are saying actually, we have a really serious responsibility to get things right.

^ Wikipedia talk:Biographies of living persons/Archive_45#Removal of WP:DOB

^ Wikipedia:Village pump (policy)/Archive_165#People's birthdate, conflicting (reliable) sources, and WP:SYNTHESIS

^ June 2021, talk page discussion

^ Wikipedia:Requests for arbitration/Rangerdude#Mercy. Passed 6-0-1.


Further reading
Wikimedia Foundation Resolution: Biographies of living people (2009), Media about living people (2013)
vteWikipedia key policies and guidelines&nbsp;(?)
Five pillars
Ignore all rules
Content&nbsp;(?)P
Verifiability
No original research
Neutral point of view
What Wikipedia is not
Biographies of living persons
Copyright (Copyright violations)
Image use
Article titles
G
Notability
Autobiography
Citing sources
Reliable sources
Reliable sources (medicine)
Do not include copies of lengthy primary sources
Plagiarism
Don't create hoaxes
Fringe theories
Patent nonsense
External links
Conduct&nbsp;(?)P
Civility
Consensus
Harassment
Vandalism
Ignore all rules
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Edit warring
Dispute resolution
Sockpuppetry
No legal threats
Child protection
Paid-contribution disclosure
G
Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers
Courtesy vanishing
Responding to threats of harm
Talk page guidelines
Signatures
Deletion&nbsp;(?)P
Deletion policy
Proposed deletion
Biographies
Criteria for speedy deletion
Attack page
Oversight
Revision deletion
Enforcement&nbsp;(?)P
Administrators
Banning
Blocking
Page protection
Editing&nbsp;(?)P
Editing policy
G
Article size
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Broad-concept article
Understandability
Style
Manual of Style
Contents
Accessibility
Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists
Classification
Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace
Project content&nbsp;(?)G
Project namespace
WikiProjects
User pages
User boxes
Shortcuts
Subpages
WMF&nbsp;(?)P
Terms of Use
List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy

List of all policies and guidelines
P: List of policies
G: List of guidelines
Summaries of values and principles






Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Biographies_of_living_persons&amp;oldid=1056819356"
		Categories: Wikipedia policiesWikipedia glossary itemsWikiProject Biography work groups and child projectsWikipedia BLP policyWikipedia content policiesHidden categories: Project pages with short descriptionWikipedia semi-protected project pagesWikipedia move-protected project pages
	


	



	Navigation menu
	
		
	
		
		Personal tools
	
	
		
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		
	


		
			
	
		
		Namespaces
	
	
		
		Project pageTalk
		
	


			
	
	
		
		Variants
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


		
		
			
	
		
		Views
	
	
		
		ReadView sourceView history
		
	


			
	
	
		
		More
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


			
	
			
				Search
			
		
			
				
				
				
				
			
		
	


		
	
	

	
		
	
	
	
		
		Navigation
	
	
		
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		
	


	
	
		
		Contribute
	
	
		
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		
	


	
		
		Tools
	
	
		
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
		
	


	
		
		Print/export
	
	
		
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		
	


	
		
		In other projects
	
	
		
		Wikimedia CommonsMeta-WikiWikispeciesWikidataWikiquoteWikiversityWikivoyage
		
	


	
	
		
		Languages
	
	
		
		Afrikaansالعربيةঅসমীয়াتۆرکجهবাংলাभोजपुरीБългарскиBosanskiCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisGalegoગુજરાતી한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoಕನ್ನಡქართულიLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംمصرىBahasa Melayuမြန်မာဘာသာNederlandsनेपाली日本語Norsk bokmålଓଡ଼ିଆPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenščinaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்Татарча/tatarçaၽႃႇသႃႇတႆး తెలుగుไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việtייִדיש粵語中文
		Edit links
	






	
	 This page was last edited on 23 November 2021, at 19:04&nbsp;(UTC).
	Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


	
	Privacy policy
	About Wikipedia
	Disclaimers
	Contact Wikipedia
	Mobile view
	Developers
	Statistics
	Cookie statement


	
	
	







