



Wikipedia:Appealing a block - Wikipedia



























	
	
	
	
	
	Wikipedia:Appealing a block
	
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		
		
		
		
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Wikipedia behavioral guideline




"WP:AAB" redirects here. For the Article Alert Bot, see Wikipedia:Article alerts. "WP:APPEAL" redirects here. For appealing bans, see WP:UNBAN.
This page documents an English Wikipedia behavioral guideline.
It is a generally accepted standard that editors should attempt to follow, though it is best treated with common sense, and occasional exceptions may apply. Any substantive edit to this page should reflect consensus. When in doubt, discuss first on the talk page.ShortcutsWP:AABWP:APPEALWP:APBWP:UNBLOCK
Some kinds of blocks restrict editing from an IP range, and not just from a given user. They do not always mean that the blocked user has done anything wrong. See below for instructions if you are blocked and do not believe you have done anything wrong. We can help if this is the case.
This page in a nutshell: A block is not a punishment, but a way to prevent further disruption. Blocked users should understand the reasons for the block, and convince administrators that they won't disrupt the project if they are unblocked.


During day-to-day operations, Wikipedia administrators routinely block accounts and IP ranges to reduce or prevent vandalism and other serious inappropriate behavior. This page explains to blocked users why they may have been blocked, as well as how to request an unblock.

Contents

1 Why was I blocked?

1.1 Common questions


2 Requesting to be unblocked
3 What happens next
4 Routes to unblock

4.1 Types of appeal
4.2 Direct appeal
4.3 Other methods of appeal


5 Abuse of the unblocking process
6 Appeals by third party
7 See also



Why was I blocked?
You may be an innocent victim of collateral damage, where you are accidentally affected by a block of some other user.
Alternatively, your account or IP may have been blocked because it appears to have been responsible for (or connected to) a serious breach of Wikipedia's policies.


If your account was blocked by mistake, it will be reactivated very quickly, as soon as you let an administrator know of the problem. Otherwise, there is a rapid appeal process which obtains quick review by other independent administrators, and brief discussion of the matter. One aim of blocking in some cases is to ensure the user learns from the incident, and that the issues don't happen again.

Common questions
ShortcutWP:BLOCKFAQ
Please read this section first. It may contain the answer to your question.


Q1: What is a block?
A1: A block prevents a user account, an IP address, or a range of IP addresses from editing Wikipedia. Blocked users can still read Wikipedia; they just cannot make edits. Blocks are used to protect Wikipedia from possible improper use, or other activity that may breach Wikipedia's editorial policies. Once a block expires, the user can edit as before, and the event becomes history unless problems recur. Automated features also identify usage which apparently should be blocked; this can be quickly rectified if incorrect.


Q2: I don't understand why I was blocked.
A2: You may have breached a behavior rule without knowing it. The block notice contains the reason why an administrator has blocked you from editing, usually with a link to a policy or guideline; read it carefully and try to understand how your behavior did not follow the policy. A block is not intended as punishment; it's meant to prevent you from making further disruptive edits, either in good faith or as vandalism. If you can show that you won't continue the behavior, the block should be lifted.
If you don't understand some detail of the policy, you can ask the administrator that blocked you for any clarification about their actions, and they're expected to answer your questions. Don't make such requests within the unblock request, though, as it should be used only when you already understand the reasons for the block and are ready to appeal and explain.


Q3: Should I create a new account to appeal? Should I edit anonymously when my account is blocked?
A3: No. That is considered evasion. You will receive fair treatment and respect on Wikipedia for being honest and not "playing games". You'll do far better to appeal under your usual account (and accept the block if that's what is decided) than to be sanctioned and further blocked for evasion.
Wikipedia has users who were blocked for days or months, accepted it, and were welcomed back and "made good" as respected editors shortly afterwards. Once a block is over, it's over.


Q4: I've never done anything wrong and I was blocked! Please advise.
A4: Do you use an ISP or web accelerator that involves shared IP addresses? Common examples include Comcast, StarHub, schools, and colleges. Or are you connecting from a public wi-fi network or using mobile data? If any of these is the case, you may have been affected by collateral damage. Also, if you are using a Virtual private network (VPN) try and logout of it and recheck if you are blocked as the IP range used by the VPN may be blocked.
In such cases, you should request an account to be created for you so that you can edit despite the block, which only affects users who are not logged in.


Q5: I did something a bit wrong, but how do I get unblocked now?
A5: All blocks can be reviewed by, and discussed with, a different administrator who is not involved, if requested.


One common requirement for unblocking is simply "do you understand that what you did was inappropriate for this site, and confirm that you won't do it again". 

In the case of shorter blocks, especially for good cause, the usual answer is to wait quietly until the block ends, then you may continue editing, putting it in the past – but learning from it. A subsequent block for repeated behavior is often longer than the previous block, so it is important to learn from blocks – in a way, blocks are intended to guide a user when words, notices, messages, and warnings don't seem sufficient.


Q6: It says I've been "indefinitely" blocked. What does that mean and how do I get unblocked?
A6: "Indefinite" does not necessarily mean "forever" or "infinite". It means "however long is needed for the user to address the issue".
This can be minutes, hours – or indeed the user may never do so.


An indefinite block means the blocking administrator did not set a time limit or expiration for the block. The user needs to discuss the matter with an administrator before any unblock will occur. It could be because the user needs to confirm things are okay and that nothing's wrong, or it could be due to some problem needing attention, or a problem that is deemed to need the user to acknowledge that they understand that a behavior was inappropriate before being unblocked.

Typical examples are where the account owner must be contacted (e.g. suspected "hacking" of their account), and users whose behavior was severely inappropriate (e.g. threats, "outings", repeated vandalism or edit warring, repeated failure to listen, etc.). Wikipedia is an encyclopedia community, so behaviors like these are not acceptable. For some issues, a user may need to stop, learn our site norms, and confirm they will not repeat the behavior (or will edit in accordance with certain conditions), before an unblock can take place.


Q7: It says I've been "autoblocked" because of another person whom I don't even know!
A7: See this page for an explanation of how autoblocks work. If you use a shared ISP (namely Comcast, StarHub, schools, colleges, etc.), you may be affected by collateral damage from other users who have edited disruptively. An administrator will sort this out as soon as it's drawn to their attention – please follow the instructions under the "Autoblocked?" section on your block page, or alternatively here.


Q8: I want to edit Wikipedia, but I keep getting blocked because of others on the same network as me!
A8: If you are an unregistered user, it's recommended that you create an account. Shared IP addresses such as school and company networks or proxy servers are frequently blocked for vandalism which often affects many innocent editors on the same network. However, registered users in good standing can request existing blocks on their IP address be "softened" to only affect anonymous editors on their network so that they may continue contributing. See also Wikipedia:Why create an account?.
Note: If your IP address is blocked, you may need to create your account at home, on another computer, phone or tablet using a different connection, or (in rare cases) in another country. You can also request that an account be created for you.
Note: Many rotating IP addresses of ISPs practising shared IP addresses are blocked as being "proxies" or "zombies" because of the large number of different users sharing the IP. On these computers, logged-in users will be automatically blocked immediately. If you encounter such a case, please follow the unblocking request steps or consult a CheckUser or administrator.
Requesting to be unblocked
Further information: Wikipedia:Guide to appealing blocks


The preferred way to appeal a block is to place {{unblock|reason=Your reason here ~~~~}} on your talk page, which is only blocked if abused. If you cannot edit your talk page, you can appeal via the Unblock Ticket Request System.


To test if you are still blocked, click here which tries to edit the Sandbox. If you are allowed to edit the sandbox, your block has already expired or been lifted and nothing more needs doing. If the block is still active, you can resume editing when unblocked, or you can request a review of the block if you believe it is unfair or that you have put right whatever was the problem.  Note that this only checks for sitewide blocks, not partial blocks.  Users can check for partial blocks by viewing their contributions page or by entering their name on the block list.

Useful links for helping blocked users: &nbsp; Message seen by blocked users: MediaWiki:Blockedtext (partial blocks:  MediaWiki:Blockedtext-partial) &nbsp; Requests for unblocking: Category:Requests for unblock
What happens next


When you appeal, other editors – most of whom probably have no involvement in the matter – will review your editing history, which has been logged, as well as the reason for the block and the history leading up to it. Editors may leave comments on your talk page regarding your appeal.


Usually, if it's a clear cut case, any uninvolved (independent) administrator will make a decision. The blocking administrator may be consulted for their comments on your request (this is a common courtesy). The process can take hours or a few days; for major discussions sometimes it can take a week or more.


Administrators will carefully avoid blocking and unblocking fights, which are a serious breach of administrator policy. For this reason, blocks will not usually be allowed to become a source of conflict; rather, consensus will be sought, by means of a fair and objective examination of the matter and of any policies alleged to have been breached.

Routes to unblock


Blocks can be reversed with the agreement by the blocking admin, an override by other admins in the case that the block was clearly unjustifiable, or (in very rare cases) on appeal to the Arbitration Committee.

Types of appeal


In all cases, unblock requests should be submitted on your user talk page. Generally speaking, unblock requests will be one of the following two types:

Requests for unblock in the event of a case of mistaken identity, misunderstanding, or other irregularity;
Appeals for clemency, in which the appellant acknowledges the conduct that led to their block and requests a second chance.


If the appeal is of the first type, you should use the unblock template on your talk page or submit a request to the Unblock Ticket Request System (UTRS). If you are partially blocked from using certain Wikipedia functions, you can also submit an appeal on the administrator noticeboard. If the appeal is of the second type, you should use the unblock template on your talk page, and only use UTRS if you cannot edit your talk page.[1]

Direct appeal


Appeals will usually take place on your user talk page; use the unblock template on your talk page to initiate this process:

If there is agreement that you may have been blocked unfairly, you may be directly unblocked (if the block was clearly and obviously a mistake), but this is very rare unless there genuinely were no prospective grounds for the block. Usually the blocking admin's judgement is respected if there is any question of doubt.
You may be unblocked if the blocking admin changes their mind or can't be reached, and an unblock is considered reasonable.
When you are unblocked, you may then follow the dispute resolution process if you believe that you were treated unfairly.
If an unblocking needs discussion, reaching a consensus usually takes several days.
After a discussion takes place, if there is consensus to unblock, the user is unblocked right away, although conditions may be imposed by the unblocking admin.
If there is no consensus to unblock, or if there is consensus to keep the user blocked after "due consideration by the community"[2], and the user is blocked indefinitely, the user is considered community banned indefinitely, and must go through the ban appeals process to have it reversed.
Other methods of appeal


In highly unusual cases, you may wish to utilize the dispute resolution process while you are still blocked. To do so, you may contact other Wikipedians by e-mail, or by editing your talk page (which you can usually do even if blocked).


Users may not appeal blocks to the Arbitration Committee by email, except if:

The block is an Oversight block or CheckUser block
The reasons for the block or information related to your appeal is unsuitable for public discussion
You have been blocked or banned by the Arbitration Committee or by an Arbitration Enforcement decision.
Abuse of the unblocking process


A usual block prevents users from editing all pages except their user talk page, in order to have a chance for appeal, and so that they are not shut out completely and are able to participate at least to some degree in Wikipedia, while the block is active.


Upon a request to seek arbitration, editing access may be restored to a limited number of other pages (such as those connected with their appeal) pending the formal decision, so that the matter (and any evidence, facts, mitigating circumstances, or corrections) can be presented as well.


A minority of editors who are blocked use these privileges poorly, for personal attack or to play games and make a point. Inevitably the response to such actions is simple – editing access is blocked in its entirety and without further discussion, whereas if the user had been responsible and reasonable, an entirely different result might well have happened.


Wikipedia blocks are usually warnings only. Once they are over and learned from, they are in the past (unless repeated). Wikipedia and its administrators and arbitration committee have a real wish for everyone who is capable of acting responsibly to be able to enjoy editing.


Users who are blocked are asked to use this as a chance to reflect, an opportunity to show their understanding and ability to act responsibly, and a period of time to let the matter pass and be learned from.


Users who have lost the ability to request unblocking on their talk pages may then do so at UTRS. Unfortunately, they may continue to abuse the appeal process via that venue as well, and may be banned from UTRS, for six months if a Standard offer is still possible, or indefinitely in the most egregious instances.

Appeals by third party


Third party appeals of blocks are generally not permitted. However, some exceptions are permitted for block reviews. An administrator may choose to refer their own block for review, particularly if it might be controversial. Any editor may request community review of blocks they believe are out-of-policy, though they should attempt to discuss their concerns with the blocking admin first. Such reviews are not considered block appeals, and if the review results in the block being endorsed it is not converted into a community ban.[3]

See also
Help:I have been blocked
Wikipedia:Guide to appealing blocks
Wikipedia:Unblock perspectives
vteWikipedia accounts and governanceUnregistered (IP) users
Why create an account?
Create an account
Request an account
IPs are human too
IP addresses are not people
IP hopper
Registered users
New account
Logging in
Reset passwords
Username policy
Changing username
Usernames for administrator attention
Unified login or SUL
Alternate account
Account security
Password strength requirements
User account security
Personal security practices
Two-factor authentication
2FA for AWB
Committed identity
On privacy, confidentiality and discretion
Compromised accounts
Blocks, bans, sanctions,
global actions
Blocking policy
FAQ
Admins guide
Tools
Autoblock
Appealing a block
Guide to appealing blocks
UTRS Unblock Ticket Request System
Blocking IP addresses
Range blocks
IPv6
Open proxies
Banning policy
ArbCom appeals
Sanctions
Personal sanctions
General sanctions
Discretionary sanctions and Log
Essay
Long-term abuse
Standard offer
Global actions
Related to accounts
Sockpuppetry
Single-purpose account
Sleeper account
Vandalism-only account
Wikibreak
Enforcer
Retiring
Courtesy vanishing
Clean start
Quiet return
User groups
 and global user groups
Requests for permissions
Admin instructions
Admin guide
Account creator
PERM
(Auto) confirmed
PERM
Autopatrolled
PERM
AutoWikiBrowser
PERM
Bot
Request
Edit filter helper
Request
Event coordinator
PERM
Extended confirmed
PERM
File mover
PERM
IP block exempt
Request
Mass message sender
PERM
New page reviewer
PERM
Page mover
PERM
Pending changes reviewer
PERM
Rollback
PERM
Template editor
PERM
Global rights policy
OTRS Volunteer Response Team
Advanced user groups
Administrator
RfA
Bureaucrat
RfB
CheckUser and Oversight
Request
Edit filter manager
Request
Interface administrator
Request
Founder
Importer
Researcher
Committees and related
Arbitration Committee
Bot approvals group
Functionaries
Clerks
SPI clerks
ArbCom clerks
Governance
Administration
FAQ
Formal organization
Editorial oversight and control
Quality control
Wikimedia Foundation
Board
Founder's seat
Meta-Wiki
Proposals
WikiProjects
Elections
Policies and guidelines
Petitions
Noticeboards
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Reforms


^ For transparency, unblock requests and discussions should happen in user talk pages unless private information is involved. If you cannot edit your talk page, an administrator may restore your talk page access and direct the appeal to user talk page if appropriate.

^ Wikipedia:Banning policy

^ Guidance based on discussion at Wikipedia:Village pump (policy)/Archive 166 §&nbsp;RfC: Can editors request community review of the blocks of others?







Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Appealing_a_block&amp;oldid=1045918517"
		Categories: Wikipedia behavioral guidelinesUnblock processHidden categories: Project pages with short descriptionWikipedia semi-protected project pages
	


	



	Navigation menu
	
		
	
		
		Personal tools
	
	
		
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		
	


		
			
	
		
		Namespaces
	
	
		
		Project pageTalk
		
	


			
	
	
		
		Variants
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


		
		
			
	
		
		Views
	
	
		
		ReadView sourceView history
		
	


			
	
	
		
		More
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


			
	
			
				Search
			
		
			
				
				
				
				
			
		
	


		
	
	

	
		
	
	
	
		
		Navigation
	
	
		
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		
	


	
	
		
		Contribute
	
	
		
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		
	


	
		
		Tools
	
	
		
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
		
	


	
		
		Print/export
	
	
		
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		
	


	
	
		
		Languages
	
	
		
		Deutsch한국어Bahasa IndonesiaMinangkabau日本語ଓଡ଼ିଆසිංහලไทยTiếng Việt中文
		Edit links
	






	
	 This page was last edited on 23 September 2021, at 03:14&nbsp;(UTC).
	Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


	
	Privacy policy
	About Wikipedia
	Disclaimers
	Contact Wikipedia
	Mobile view
	Developers
	Statistics
	Cookie statement


	
	
	







