



Help:Edit conflict - Wikipedia



























	
	
	
	
	
	Help:Edit conflict
	
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		
		
		
		
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Wikimedia help page
This page is about the technical problem where multiple editors try to edit the same page at once, leading to a conflict the software cannot resolve automatically. For editing disagreements between editors, see Wikipedia:Edit warring.




This help page is a how-to guide.
It details processes or procedures of some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms and practices. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, and may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting.ShortcutsH:ECWP:EDCWP:ECF
This page in a nutshell: Edit conflicts occur when two users make edits to the same page at the same time, causing the edits to conflict with each other. When this happens, the MediaWiki software provides a screen that allows the user to resolve the conflict manually.


This page discusses edit conflicts, and how to deal with them. To understand what an edit conflict is, consider the following situation:

Bob clicks "Edit" on a page. The software sends Bob the current revision of the page, #1.
Alice clicks "Edit" on the same page, while Bob is editing. The software sends Alice the current revision of the page, #1.
Bob finishes his edits and clicks "Publish changes". The software saves Bob's edits as revision #2, and publishes #2. Alice is still editing #1.
Alice finishes her edits and clicks "Publish changes". The software saves Alice's edits as revision #3, but discovers that #3 is based on revision #1, although the currently published revision is #2. The software tries to automatically reconcile the differences, but fails. Alice therefore gets an "edit conflict" page, giving Alice a chance to reconcile the differences between #2 and #3 manually.
Contents

1 Layout of the edit-conflict page
2 Resolving an edit conflict
3 Logical edit conflicts
4 Mistakes
5 Reverting
6 Prevention
7 See also



Layout of the edit-conflict page
 Note: The following explanation may not be consistent with the editing interface that you see, depending on your account's preferences and gadgets, which web browser you use, and whether you use Wikipedia's traditional editor, visual editor, or a mobile app to edit.
  Your changes have been copied into a box at the very end of the page. The box with your changes is labeled "Your text".  On a large page with many changes, you may have to scroll down a very long way to find the box that contains your changes.


At the top of the edit-conflict page is an editing box containing Bob's version of the whole page, even if Alice is doing section editing.


At the bottom of the edit-conflict page is a second editing box containing the text Alice was going to submit. This will be Alice's version of the page or section she was editing.


Between the two editing boxes is a diff that shows the difference between Bob's and Alice's version of the article. For the section Alice is editing, it shows Alice's changes and Bob's possible changes, except for sections where Alice and Bob have both made the same change. For the other sections, it shows the full new text as if all that text was added.


Alice can edit in the upper editing box and press Publish  changes. In the case Alice was editing only a section, this will be interpreted as the new version of the section, hence produce duplication of the other sections, unless Alice deletes them before saving. (This seems to be a bug.) The best solution in this case is to save your new text outside of Wikipedia (e.g., to the clipboard), cancel out, then try again.


At certain times when pressing Publish changes and the system is slow, one may be able to make multiple edits to the same page before the system responds. This produces an edit conflict with oneself. In this case the upper text may be the old version instead of the one involving the first edit, i.e., the system notices the earlier change but has not processed it yet. A moment later, while one is viewing the edit-conflict page, the first change is carried out in the background, and the upper text no longer is the current one. Hence, the diff shows the combined edit, and in the case of section editing, like before, the "addition" of the other sections. If you choose to publish your work in this type of edit conflict, it will result in the removal of your previous editing from the page.

Resolving an edit conflict
  In most situations, an edit conflict can be resolved by merging the two changes to a page — including the contributions of both editors.


If Alice made only small changes, and Bob made large changes, she may choose to work from Bob's version, and re-merge her changes in. Alice might choose to add some text like "via edit conflict" to the edit summary, or use template {{edit conflict}} on a Discussion/Talk page, to warn Bob and others that she had to do this&nbsp;– Bob can then peer review her merging for accuracy.


If Alice made large changes, and Bob made small changes, Alice may choose to work from her version. One option is for Alice to copy the bottom text into the top text (or just copy over the one section of the top text, if Alice was section editing), with an appropriate edit summary (e.g., "via edit conflict, will remerge"). Then Alice can view the page history, determine Bob's changes, and re-apply them to her version, in a separate edit.


If both Alice and Bob made large changes, matters become complicated, and Alice and Bob just have to do the best they can. For example, if both Alice and Bob simultaneously add a large section of text on the same subject, then it may be best for Alice to submit her changes, and then for Alice and Bob to both have a look at the two versions and decide between themselves which version is better.


Alice should not just post her changes over the top of Bob's. We assume good faith&nbsp;– mistakes are occasionally made, and newcomers may not understand the edit conflict window. However, Alice must not routinely ignore edit conflicts. It is absolutely not acceptable for Alice to overwrite Bob out of laziness. We encourage contributors to double-check their merges by using the diff feature.

Logical edit conflicts


(This is a conflict between editors that is undetectable by the mechanism that decides whether to give the "edit conflict" message.)


Some people edit by copying the source text into a text editor, making lots of changes (reorganising, adding new content, etc.), and then, when they're done, pasting the whole thing back onto Wikipedia as a single (new) edit. If someone else has made changes in the meantime these changes would get lost in the paste back. People who edit in this manner should either:

paste only into the same edit box that was originally copied from, or
check the page history for such edits, and merge the changes before pasting back.


The second method is not foolproof, since another editor may save changes in the time interval between the retrieval of the page history and the final pasting back. This can be detected by checking the page history again afterwards.


If third-party software that assists a user to edit a page in an external editor does not follow the first bullet point above (or the equivalent measure, if any, for the method it is using to access Wikipedia) and causes a logical edit conflict, then that is a software bug which should be reported to the software developers of the third-party software being used.

Mistakes


Sometimes mistakes will be made in the merging process, because Alice is human, and this may cause some of Bob's changes to be accidentally reversed. Logical edit conflicts aren't always immediately visible. Sometimes Alice may have good reasons for thinking that Bob's improvements aren't useful. In this case, Bob and Alice are expected to resolve their differences amicably.


If Bob made a small change which Alice accidentally replaced, Bob must not revert to his version. It is absolutely not acceptable for Bob to reverse Alice's major improvements to the page out of a desire to protect his minor improvements, or to punish Alice for her carelessness. This is particularly important if the page has subsequently been edited by other editors.


The best approach for Bob in this circumstance is to edit Alice's version, reinstate his minor improvements, and leave Alice's major improvements intact. He may also add something to the edit summary to indicate that he had to do this&nbsp;– for example: "Reinstating link which Alice accidentally removed". Alice should then apologize to Bob for her mistake, and thank him for preserving her improvements.


If Alice repeats her error, then the best approach is for Bob to have a friendly word on her talk page, point her to this page, and ask her if she could take a little more care in the future. This is particularly important for newcomers, who may not understand the correct way to resolve edit conflicts, though even experienced users may need the occasional friendly reminder.

Reverting


When saving a previous version (i.e., when reverting) or a new version based on that (a modified reversion) the edit conflict warning and prevention system is not triggered and a possible new edit made in the meantime is unintentionally reverted also, see Reverting a page to an earlier version. To avoid this problem one can copy the text from the edit box of the old version into the edit box of the latest version. In some sense, this can cause hidden edit conflicts: you may overwrite someone else's changes without realising that you are doing so. It's always wise to check the diff after performing a revert, just as you would after posting via edit conflict. Preferably, one can simply try to avoid reversion wars.

Prevention
See also: Wikipedia:Avoiding edit-conflicts


Edit conflicts are irritating and can be time-consuming, but there are ways to make them less frequent or easier to recover from.


Saving your work frequently reduces the risk of your experiencing an edit conflict, and when you do they should be easier to resolve.


When practical, edit one area of the article at a time. This reduces edit conflicts because the system can cope if different editors are editing different areas at the same time. Both the source code editor and the visual editor use CVS-style edit-conflict merging, based on the diff3 utility. This feature triggers an edit conflict only if users attempt to edit the same few lines. Edit conflict detection is by line/paragraph.


Start new articles in sandboxes and move them to mainspace only when you are ready to stop editing them for an hour or so and instead watch what others do to them.


Wikipedia has an "In Use" notice in its Template namespace that people may use when editing a page over a long period of time. This may discourage other editors from editing while you are editing. Simply put {{inuse}} on an article before proceeding with a major edit, and remove the template when the editing is complete.

See also



This page is referenced in the Wikipedia Glossary.


Template:Edit conflict
Race condition, a computing issue of which Wikipedia edit conflicts are an example.
vteWikipedia help pages
Visit the Teahouse or the Help desk for an interactive Q &amp; A forum.

FAQs&nbsp;(?)
Reference desks&nbsp;(?)
Noticeboards&nbsp;(?)
Cheatsheet&nbsp;(?)
 Directories&nbsp;(?)
About Wikipedia&nbsp;(?)
Administration
Purpose
Principles
Policies and guidelines
What Wikipedia is not
Disclaimer&nbsp;(parental advice)
Making requests
Who writes Wikipedia?
Help for readers&nbsp;(?)
FAQ
Books
Copyright
Glossary
Mobile access
Navigation
Other languages
Searching
Students
Viewing media
Contributing
to Wikipedia&nbsp;(?)
Advice for young editors
Avoiding common mistakes
Etiquette
Simplified Manual of Style
Simplified rule-set
"Ignore all rules"
"The rules are principles"
Style-tips
Tip of the day
Your first article&nbsp;(article wizard)
Getting started&nbsp;(?)
Why create an account?
Introductions by topic
Graphics tutorials
Picture tutorial
IRC (live chat) tutorial
VisualEditor user guide
Dos and don'ts&nbsp;(?)
Accessibility
Biographies
Biographies (living)
Categorization
Consensus
Discussions
Disambiguation
Images
Leads
Links
Lists
References
Tables
Titles (of articles)
How-to pages and
information pages&nbsp;(?)
Appealing blocks
Article deletion
Categories
Citations/references
Referencing for beginners
Citation Style 1
Cite errors
References and page numbers
Convert
Diff
Editing
Minor edit
toolbar
edit conflict
Find sources
Files
Footnotes
Image deletion
Infoboxes
Linking&nbsp;(link color)
Logging in
Merging
Page name
Renaming pages
Redirect
Passwords
Email confirmation
Reverting
Simple vandalism cleanup
Talk pages&nbsp;(archiving
simple archiving)
User contributions
WP search protocol
Coding&nbsp;(?)
Wiki markup
Barcharts
Calculations
Characters
Columns
Hidden text
HTML
Lists
Magic words
Music symbols
Sections
Sounds
Tables
Templates
Transclusion
URL
Visual files
Directories&nbsp;(?)
Abbreviations
Contents (Encyclopedia proper)
Departments
Editor's index
Essays
FAQs
Glossary
Guidelines
Manual of Style 
Policies
Tasks
Tips
Tools
 Missing Manual

Ask for help on your talk page&nbsp;(?)
vteWikipedia technical helpGet personal technical help at the Teahouse, Help desk, Village pump (technical), talk pages or IRC.General
technical help
Browser notes
Bypass cache
Keyboard shortcuts
Editing
CharInsert
Edit conflict
Edit toolbar
Reverting
How to create a page
IRC
Tutorial
Mobile access
Multilingual support
Page history
Page information
Page name
Help
Printing
Software notices
Editnotice
Special Characters
Entering
User access levels
VisualEditor
User guide
Special
page-related
Special page help
Edit filter
Emailing users
Logging in
Reset passwords
Logs
Moving a page
Fixing cut-and-paste moves
Notifications/Echo
FAQ
Page Curation
Page import
Pending changes
Random pages
Recent changes
Related changes
Searching
Linksearch
Tags
User contributions
Watchlist
What links here
Wikitext
Wikitext
Cheatsheet
Columns
Line-break handling
Lists
Magic words
For beginners
Conditional expressions
Switch parser function
Time function
Redirects
Sections and TOCs
Tables
Introduction
Basics
Advanced table formatting
Collapsing
Conditional tables
Sorting
Using colours
Links and diffs
Links
Interlanguage
Interwiki
Permanent
Diffs
Simplest diff guide
Simple diff and link guide
Complete diff and link guide
Colon trick
Link color
Pipe trick
URLs
Media files: images,
videos and sounds
Media help
Files
Creation and usage
Moving files to Commons
Images
Introduction to images
Picture tutorial
Preparing images for upload
Uploading images
Options to hide an image
Extended image syntax
SVG help
Gallery tag
Graphics tutorials
Basic bitmap image editing
How to improve image quality
Graphics Lab resources
Sound file markup
Visual file markup
Other graphics
Family trees
Graphs and charts
How to create
Barcharts
To scale charts
Math formulas
Math symbols
LaTeX symbols
Rendering math
Musical scores
Musical symbols
Timeline
EasyTimeline syntax
WikiHiero syntax
Templates and
Lua modules
Templates
Advanced template coding
Template documentation
Template index
Template limits
Template sandbox and test cases
Citation templates
Lua help
Lua project
Resources
To do
Substitution
Purge
Job queue
Transclusion
Labeled section
Guide to Scribbling
Data structure 
Namespaces
Main/Article
Category
Draft
File
File description page
Help
Portal
Project/Wikipedia
Talk
Archiving
Simple
Template
User
User page design
MediaWiki
Bug reports and feature requests
System message
TimedMediaHandler extension
Module
Special
HTML and CSS
Cascading Style Sheets
HTML in wikitext
Catalogue of CSS classes
Common.js and common.css
User CSS for monospaced coding font
Classes in microformats
Markup validation
Span tags
Useful styles
Customisation
and tools
Preferences
Gadgets
Skins
Citation tools
Cleaning up vandalism tools
Customizing watchlists
Hide pages
IRC Scripts
User scripts
Guide
Techniques
User style
Tools
Alternative browsing
Browser tools
Editing tools
Navigation shortcuts
Optimum tool set
Wikimedia Cloud Services
Beta Features at MediaWiki
Automated editing
AfC helper script
AutoWikiBrowser
Bots
Creating
HotCat
Huggle
Navigation popups
RedWarn
Twinkle
WPCleaner
Inactive
igloo
STiki

See also: Category:Wikipedia how-to
Category:Wikipedia information pages
Further navigation at: Help pages
Administrators
Accessibility
Accounts
Bots
Referencing
Citation metadata
Templates
User scripts






Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Help:Edit_conflict&amp;oldid=1054206928"
		Categories: Wikipedia how-toWikipedia glossary itemsHidden categories: Help pages with short descriptionWikipedia semi-protected project pagesWikipedia move-protected project pagesWikipedia help
	


	



	Navigation menu
	
		
	
		
		Personal tools
	
	
		
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		
	


		
			
	
		
		Namespaces
	
	
		
		Help pageTalk
		
	


			
	
	
		
		Variants
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


		
		
			
	
		
		Views
	
	
		
		ReadView sourceView history
		
	


			
	
	
		
		More
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


			
	
			
				Search
			
		
			
				
				
				
				
			
		
	


		
	
	

	
		
	
	
	
		
		Navigation
	
	
		
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		
	


	
	
		
		Contribute
	
	
		
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		
	


	
		
		Tools
	
	
		
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
		
	


	
		
		Print/export
	
	
		
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		
	


	
		
		In other projects
	
	
		
		Wikimedia CommonsMediaWikiMeta-Wiki
		
	


	
	
		
		Languages
	
	
		
		AfrikaansAlemannischÆngliscالعربيةБългарскиCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어Bahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaLatviešuLietuviųMagyarBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsScotsSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaSundaSvenskaதமிழ்తెలుగుไทยУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việt粵語中文
		Edit links
	






	
	 This page was last edited on 8 November 2021, at 18:00&nbsp;(UTC).
	Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


	
	Privacy policy
	About Wikipedia
	Disclaimers
	Contact Wikipedia
	Mobile view
	Developers
	Statistics
	Cookie statement


	
	
	







