



User talk:Qwerfjkl/Archive 2 - Wikipedia





























	
	
	
	
	User talk:Qwerfjkl/Archive 2
	
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		&lt; User talk:Qwerfjkl
		
		
		
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		This is an archive of past discussions. Do not edit the contents of this page. If you wish to start a new discussion or revive an old one, please do so on the current talk page.



Archive&nbsp;1

Archive&nbsp;2

Archive&nbsp;3

Archive&nbsp;4

Archive&nbsp;5
  
Contents

1 Speedy deletion nomination of Category:JFL map templates by year
2 Speedy deletion nomination of Category:Labelled maps of Paraguayan departments
3 Speedy deletion nomination of Category:SHL labelled maps by season
4 Sorry Message from User:iKrishnaTha
5 Pending changes reviewer granted
6 Speedy deletion nomination of Category:A-League map templates
7 Speedy deletion nomination of Category:Asia location map templates
8 Speedy deletion nomination of Category:Europe location map templates
9 "Chimpout" listed at Redirects for discussion
10 Speedy deletion nomination of Category:Location map templates by sea
11 Reverting
12 Articles you might like to edit, from SuggestBot
13 Asking on how to permitted to edit a MetaWiki in Wikipedia
14 Simon Kaggwa Njala
15 H.E.R changes
16 "SML Movies" listed at Redirects for discussion
17 AFC/RD and redirect creation
18 First article!
19 "Amogus" listed at Redirects for discussion
20 Your signature
21 GOCE June 2021 newsletter
22 The Signpost: 27 June 2021
23 Étienne de Perier
24 F-score edit
25 Articles you might like to edit, from SuggestBot
26 Administrators' newsletter – July 2021
27 A goat for you!
28 Kepa requested redirects enquiry
29 A kitten for you!
30 Articles for Creation July 2021 Backlog Elimination Drive
31 Wikipedia:Articles for creation/Redirects and categories
32 Draft:List of Atlas LV3C launches
33 Brearley School alumni or alumnae
34 July 2021
35 A barnstar for you!
36 Paolo Ruggiero page
37 Regex



Speedy deletion nomination of Category:JFL map templates by year



A tag has been placed on Category:JFL map templates by year indicating that it is currently empty, and is not a disambiguation category, a category redirect, a featured topics category, under discussion at Categories for discussion, or a project category that by its nature may become empty on occasion. If it remains empty for seven days or more, it may be deleted under section C1 of the criteria for speedy deletion. 


If you think this page should not be deleted for this reason you may contest the nomination by visiting the page and clicking the button labelled "Contest this speedy deletion". This will give you the opportunity to explain why you believe the page should not be deleted. Please do not remove the speedy deletion tag from the page yourself.   Liz Read! Talk! 16:08, 11 June 2021 (UTC)

Speedy deletion nomination of Category:Labelled maps of Paraguayan departments



A tag has been placed on Category:Labelled maps of Paraguayan departments indicating that it is currently empty, and is not a disambiguation category, a category redirect, a featured topics category, under discussion at Categories for discussion, or a project category that by its nature may become empty on occasion. If it remains empty for seven days or more, it may be deleted under section C1 of the criteria for speedy deletion. 


If you think this page should not be deleted for this reason you may contest the nomination by visiting the page and clicking the button labelled "Contest this speedy deletion". This will give you the opportunity to explain why you believe the page should not be deleted. Please do not remove the speedy deletion tag from the page yourself.   Liz Read! Talk! 16:09, 11 June 2021 (UTC)

Speedy deletion nomination of Category:SHL labelled maps by season



A tag has been placed on Category:SHL labelled maps by season indicating that it is currently empty, and is not a disambiguation category, a category redirect, a featured topics category, under discussion at Categories for discussion, or a project category that by its nature may become empty on occasion. If it remains empty for seven days or more, it may be deleted under section C1 of the criteria for speedy deletion. 


If you think this page should not be deleted for this reason you may contest the nomination by visiting the page and clicking the button labelled "Contest this speedy deletion". This will give you the opportunity to explain why you believe the page should not be deleted. Please do not remove the speedy deletion tag from the page yourself.   Liz Read! Talk! 16:11, 11 June 2021 (UTC)

Sorry Message from User:iKrishnaTha


I am sorry for the edit, but my brother oppose Mahatma Gandhi. I am not having any bad thought for him. IKrishnaTha (talk) 16:15, 13 June 2021 (UTC)

Pending changes reviewer granted



Hello. Your account has been granted the "pending changes reviewer" userright, allowing you to review other users' edits on pages protected by pending changes. The list of articles awaiting review is located at Special:PendingChanges, while the list of articles that have pending changes protection turned on is located at Special:StablePages.


Being granted reviewer rights neither grants you status nor changes how you can edit articles. If you do not want this user right, you may ask any administrator to remove it for you at any time.


See also:

Wikipedia:Reviewing pending changes, the guideline on reviewing
Wikipedia:Pending changes, the summary of the use of pending changes
Wikipedia:Protection policy#Pending changes protection, the policy determining which pages can be given pending changes protection by administrators. 



Seddon talk 23:35, 13 June 2021 (UTC)

Speedy deletion nomination of Category:A-League map templates



A tag has been placed on Category:A-League map templates indicating that it is currently empty, and is not a disambiguation category, a category redirect, a featured topics category, under discussion at Categories for discussion, or a project category that by its nature may become empty on occasion. If it remains empty for seven days or more, it may be deleted under section C1 of the criteria for speedy deletion. 


If you think this page should not be deleted for this reason you may contest the nomination by visiting the page and clicking the button labelled "Contest this speedy deletion". This will give you the opportunity to explain why you believe the page should not be deleted. Please do not remove the speedy deletion tag from the page yourself.   Liz Read! Talk! 15:45, 14 June 2021 (UTC)

Speedy deletion nomination of Category:Asia location map templates



A tag has been placed on Category:Asia location map templates indicating that it is currently empty, and is not a disambiguation category, a category redirect, a featured topics category, under discussion at Categories for discussion, or a project category that by its nature may become empty on occasion. If it remains empty for seven days or more, it may be deleted under section C1 of the criteria for speedy deletion. 


If you think this page should not be deleted for this reason you may contest the nomination by visiting the page and clicking the button labelled "Contest this speedy deletion". This will give you the opportunity to explain why you believe the page should not be deleted. Please do not remove the speedy deletion tag from the page yourself.   Liz Read! Talk! 15:47, 14 June 2021 (UTC)

Speedy deletion nomination of Category:Europe location map templates



A tag has been placed on Category:Europe location map templates indicating that it is currently empty, and is not a disambiguation category, a category redirect, a featured topics category, under discussion at Categories for discussion, or a project category that by its nature may become empty on occasion. If it remains empty for seven days or more, it may be deleted under section C1 of the criteria for speedy deletion. 


If you think this page should not be deleted for this reason you may contest the nomination by visiting the page and clicking the button labelled "Contest this speedy deletion". This will give you the opportunity to explain why you believe the page should not be deleted. Please do not remove the speedy deletion tag from the page yourself.   Liz Read! Talk! 16:18, 14 June 2021 (UTC)

"Chimpout" listed at Redirects for discussion



A discussion is taking place to address the redirect Chimpout. The discussion will occur at Wikipedia:Redirects for discussion/Log/2021 June 14#Chimpout until a consensus is reached, and anyone, including you, is welcome to contribute to the discussion.  Sangdeboeuf (talk) 21:07, 14 June 2021 (UTC)

Speedy deletion nomination of Category:Location map templates by sea



A tag has been placed on Category:Location map templates by sea indicating that it is currently empty, and is not a disambiguation category, a category redirect, a featured topics category, under discussion at Categories for discussion, or a project category that by its nature may become empty on occasion. If it remains empty for seven days or more, it may be deleted under section C1 of the criteria for speedy deletion. 


If you think this page should not be deleted for this reason you may contest the nomination by visiting the page and clicking the button labelled "Contest this speedy deletion". This will give you the opportunity to explain why you believe the page should not be deleted. Please do not remove the speedy deletion tag from the page yourself.   Liz Read! Talk! 16:42, 15 June 2021 (UTC)

Reverting


Hello, please don't revert a citation with sources  as you did:


"Perier's cruel logic was reactionary . Since he had used blacks to murder Indians in order to make bad blood between the races , the Indians retaliated by using blacks to murder white men"[1][2]


I agree that nstead of reverting, it;s beeter discuss the situation with the editor(s) involved and try to reach a consensus on the talk page. Regard --Belyny (talk) 17:49, 16 June 2021 (UTC)

@Belyny Calling someone cruel is a NPoV violation; instead use phrases like 'was called cruel by X [reference]' ―&nbsp;Qwerfjkl&nbsp;|&nbsp;𝕋𝔸𝕃𝕂&nbsp;&nbsp;(please use {{reply to|Qwerfjkl}} on reply) 17:54, 16 June 2021 (UTC)



References


^ Woodson, Carter Godwin; Logan, Rayford Whittingham (1916). The Journal of Negro History. Chicago, Illinois: Association for the Study of Negro Life and History. p.&nbsp;370.

^ Woodson, Carter Godwin; Logan, Rayford Whittingham (1916). The Journal of Negro History. Chicago, Illinois: Association for the Study of Negro Life and History. p.&nbsp;370.



Articles you might like to edit, from SuggestBot


Note: All columns in this table are sortable, allowing you to rearrange the table so the articles most interesting to you are shown at the top.  All images have mouse-over popups with more information.  For more information about the columns and categories, please consult the documentation and please get in touch on SuggestBot's talk page with any questions you might have.




Views/Day

Quality

Title

Tagged with…


166

 

Arizona Wildcats (talk)

Add sources


292

 

Negative (photography) (talk)

Add sources


536

 

QT Marshall (talk)

Add sources


22

 

The Network (professional wrestling) (talk)

Add sources


4

 

1990 Nevada Wolf Pack football team (talk)

Add sources


47

 

Roswell Invaders (talk)

Add sources


17

 

Donor-specific antibody (talk)

Cleanup


5

 

Linda Fröhlich (talk)

Cleanup


1,202

 

Busan (talk)

Cleanup


21

 

Theo Francken (talk)

Expand


39

 

Yusuf Bey (talk)

Expand


422

 

Organ trade (talk)

Expand


375

 

Royal Households of the United Kingdom (talk)

Unencyclopaedic


65

 

Star lifting (talk)

Unencyclopaedic


52

 

Dysfunctional Friends (talk)

Unencyclopaedic


159

 

.google (talk)

Merge


15

 

Kazakh Short U (talk)

Merge


38

 

Hopland, California (talk)

Merge


20

 

History and naming of human leukocyte antigens (talk)

Wikify


105

 

Andrew G. Vajna (talk)

Wikify


114

 

Lon Kruger (talk)

Wikify


11

 

Organ donation in Australia (talk)

Orphan


3

 

SAFiYAA (talk)

Orphan


5

 

Rainer Gruessner (talk)

Orphan


76

 

Kalles Kaviar (talk)

Stub


14

 

Lawlor Events Center (talk)

Stub


16

 

Imlifidase (talk)

Stub


140

 

Captain General Royal Marines (talk)

Stub


13

 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish softball (talk)

Stub


44

 

Santa Fe Fuego (talk)

Stub



SuggestBot picks articles in a number of ways based on other articles you've edited, including straight text similarity, following wikilinks, and matching your editing patterns against those of other Wikipedians.  It tries to recommend only articles that other Wikipedians have marked as needing work.  We appreciate that you have signed up to receive suggestions regularly; your contributions make Wikipedia better — thanks for helping!


If you have feedback on how to make SuggestBot better, please let us know on SuggestBot's talk page. -- SuggestBot (talk) 23:25, 17 June 2021 (UTC)

Asking on how to permitted to edit a MetaWiki in Wikipedia


Sir, may I ask where should I request to make an edit in MetaWiki, I'm currently translate, The Wikipedia Adventure to my home wiki but I cant Edit a Metawiki.. thank you. --  Shimin_Ufesoj  

@ShiminUfesoj: I do not know the answer to this question, so I will copy it to the teahouse. ―&nbsp;Qwerfjkl&nbsp;|&nbsp;𝕋𝔸𝕃𝕂&nbsp;&nbsp;(please use {{reply to|Qwerfjkl}} on reply) 13:45, 18 June 2021 (UTC)
Simon Kaggwa Njala


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NBS_Television_(Uganda) 
Why is there no reference to him on this article? I edited it but you removed it. 146.90.155.42 (talk) 12:04, 19 June 2021 (UTC)

I removed it because you started a completely new section with no sources. ―&nbsp;Qwerfjkl&nbsp;|&nbsp;𝕋𝔸𝕃𝕂&nbsp;&nbsp;(please use {{reply to|Qwerfjkl}} on reply) 14:09, 19 June 2021 (UTC)
H.E.R changes


Hey!


I indeed edited the notes because I recognised the Michael Jackson vocals from 'You Rock My World'. It's such a nerdy detail that it isn't published anywhere yet. But I also noticed that in the same notes it said Ant Clemons provides background vocals on 'Damage' which was stated without citation and hasn't necessarily been confirmed anywhere. What's the difference between that note and mine? Just asking for future reference! —&nbsp;Preceding unsigned comment added by Boozlebam (talk • contribs) 13:02, 19 June 2021 (UTC)

"SML Movies" listed at Redirects for discussion



A discussion is taking place to address the redirect SML Movies. The discussion will occur at Wikipedia:Redirects for discussion/Log/2021 June 21#SML Movies until a consensus is reached, and anyone, including you, is welcome to contribute to the discussion.  Thing in the jar (talk) 00:32, 21 June 2021 (UTC)

AFC/RD and redirect creation


Hi. I just identified that two of the redirects you previously accepted at WP:AFCRD contained implausible typos, so I had to reverse the decision on these requests. Please be careful with typos like "Licence" and "License" when reviewing requests. Thanks! Jalen Folf (talk) 01:08, 23 June 2021 (UTC)

Actually, disregard this. Dumb American didn't think correctly. Jalen Folf (talk) 01:14, 23 June 2021 (UTC)
First article!


Hey there,


I'm about to publish my first article and wanted to give a heads up to a seasoned editor so they can check it out!Boozlebam (talk) 18:29, 22 June 2021 (UTC)

@Boozlebam Hi, I don't normally create articles, but you could try the Teahouse or submit this as a draft (by adding {{User sandbox}} and clicking Submit draft for review). ―&nbsp;Qwerfjkl&nbsp;|&nbsp;𝕋𝔸𝕃𝕂&nbsp;&nbsp;(please use {{reply to|Qwerfjkl}} on reply) 13:43, 23 June 2021 (UTC)
"Amogus" listed at Redirects for discussion



A discussion is taking place to address the redirect Amogus. The discussion will occur at Wikipedia:Redirects for discussion/Log/2021 June 23#Amogus until a consensus is reached, and anyone, including you, is welcome to contribute to the discussion.  O.N.R.&nbsp;(talk) 17:57, 23 June 2021 (UTC)

Your signature


Hello Qwerfjkl there is a problem with your user signature.  Specifically you are transcluding templates (Template:Z181 and Template:Tlx) in your signature, in violation of the signature policy (c.f. Wikipedia:Signatures#Transclusion_of_templates_(or_other_pages)).  Please fix this before using your signature again.  You may do this at Special:Preferences.  If you are not sure what to fix, uncheck the "Treat the above as wiki markup..." box and remove everything in the "Signature:" box to revert to the default signature.  Thank you for your prompt attention to this issue. — xaosflux Talk 13:07, 25 June 2021 (UTC)

@Xaosflux Thanks, fixed now. ―&nbsp;{{u|Qwerfjkl}}|𝕋𝔸𝕃𝕂&nbsp; 21:13, 25 June 2021 (UTC)
Thank you, — xaosflux Talk 22:01, 25 June 2021 (UTC)
GOCE June 2021 newsletter



Guild of Copy Editors June 2021 Newsletter



  


Hello and welcome to the June newsletter, our first newsletter of 2021, which is a brief update of Guild activities since December&nbsp;2020. To unsubscribe, follow the link at the bottom of this box.

Current events


Election time: Voting in our mid-year Election of Coordinators opened on 16&nbsp;June and will conclude at the end of the month. GOCE coordinators normally serve a six-month term and are elected on an approval basis. Have your say and show support here.


June Blitz: Our June copy-editing blitz is underway and will conclude on 26 June.

Drive and blitz reports


January Drive: 28 editors completed 324 copy edits totalling 714,902 words. At the end of the drive, the backlog had reached a record low of 52&nbsp;articles. (full results)


February Blitz: 15 editors completed 48 copy edits totalling 142,788 words. (full results)


March Drive: 29 editors completed 215 copy edits totalling 407,736 words. (full results)


April Blitz: 12 editors completed 23 copy edits totalling 56,574 words. (full results)


May Drive: 29 editors completed 356 copy edits totalling 479,013 words.  (full results)

Other news


Progress report: as of 26&nbsp;June, GOCE participants had completed 343 Requests since 1&nbsp;January.  The backlog has fluctuated but remained in control, with a low of 52 tagged articles at the end of January and a high of 620 articles in mid-June.


Thank you all again for your participation; we wouldn't be able to achieve what we have without you! Cheers from your GOCE coordinators Jonesey95, Dhtwiki, Miniapolis, Tenryuu and Twofingered Typist, and from member Reidgreg.

 To discontinue receiving GOCE newsletters, please remove your name from our mailing list.




Sent by MediaWiki message delivery (talk) on behalf of Wikipedia:WikiProject Guild of Copy Editors at 12:38, 26 June 2021 (UTC).

The Signpost: 27 June 2021
 
News and notes: Elections, Wikimania, masking and more
In the media: Boris and Joe, reliability, love, and money
Disinformation report: Croatian Wikipedia: capture and release
Recent research: Feminist critique of Wikipedia's epistemology, Black Americans vastly underrepresented among editors, Wiki Workshop report
Traffic report: So no one told you life was gonna be this way
News from the WMF: Searching for Wikipedia
Humour: Wikipedia's best articles on the world's strangest things
WikiProject report: WikiProject on open proxies interview
Forum: Is WMF fundraising abusive?
Discussion report: Reliability of WikiLeaks discussed
Obituary: SarahSV   * Read this Signpost in full * Single-page * Unsubscribe * MediaWiki message delivery (talk) 20:15, 27 June 2021 (UTC) 

Étienne de Perier


Hi Qwerfjkl, Do you have any interest in weighing back in on the Étienne de Perier article? I've been working on a full rewrite and it could benefit from having some more voices in the discussion. Everything's been rewritten and updated on the main article, except for his time as governor. That section is in progress at Talk:Étienne de Perier/Temp. —Carter (talk) 22:10, 29 June 2021 (UTC)

@Tcr25 I'm happy to discuss, but I may be busy due to this. ―Qwerfjkltalk 06:25, 30 June 2021 (UTC)
Qwerfjkl, I understand, but if you have a chance to join in, I'd appreciate it. —Carter (talk) 12:36, 30 June 2021 (UTC)
F-score edit


You say that my edit is not properly referenced, but it flows from the reference Williams [11] which is already cited in the same sentence.  —&nbsp;Preceding unsigned comment added by 77.96.41.122 (talk) 10:41, 1 July 2021 (UTC) 

It wasn't clear, feel free to re-add the text, copying the citation (or changing the &lt;ref&gt; tag to &lt;refname = [Insert name]&gt;, and adding this after the re-added text). See WP:CITATIONS for more information. ―Qwerfjkltalk 15:39, 1 July 2021 (UTC)
Articles you might like to edit, from SuggestBot


Note: All columns in this table are sortable, allowing you to rearrange the table so the articles most interesting to you are shown at the top.  All images have mouse-over popups with more information.  For more information about the columns and categories, please consult the documentation and please get in touch on SuggestBot's talk page with any questions you might have.




Views/Day

Quality

Title

Tagged with…


17

 

Mecheri (talk)

Add sources


659

 

Ocean current (talk)

Add sources


16

 

Caribbean Current (talk)

Add sources


1,405

 

Khazars (talk)

Add sources


21

 

FutureBASIC (talk)

Add sources


680

 

Drake Passage (talk)

Add sources


142

 

Shutdown of thermohaline circulation (talk)

Cleanup


202

 

Thermal lance (talk)

Cleanup


146

 

Plasterwork (talk)

Cleanup


184

 

Ocean gyre (talk)

Expand


16

 

Wind generated current (talk)

Expand


113

 

Surface-supplied diving (talk)

Expand


17

 

The New Teacher Project (talk)

Unencyclopaedic


1,271

 

Ilham Aliyev (talk)

Unencyclopaedic


22,777

 

Eric Adams (politician) (talk)

Unencyclopaedic


29

 

Jianbing guozi (talk)

Merge


105

 

Dräger (company) (talk)

Merge


104

 

Lechia (talk)

Merge


43

 

North Pacific Current (talk)

Wikify


70

 

Korea Strait (talk)

Wikify


22

 

Geology of England (talk)

Wikify


6

 

Tropical Atlantic SST Dipole (talk)

Orphan


11

 

Plant genome assembly (talk)

Orphan


5

 

Volcanoes of Mozambique (talk)

Orphan


43

 

North Equatorial Current (talk)

Stub


14

 

Antilles Current (talk)

Stub


8

 

Madagascar Current (talk)

Stub


145

 

Semantic Scholar (talk)

Stub


156

 

North Atlantic Current (talk)

Stub


7

 

Angola Current (talk)

Stub



SuggestBot picks articles in a number of ways based on other articles you've edited, including straight text similarity, following wikilinks, and matching your editing patterns against those of other Wikipedians.  It tries to recommend only articles that other Wikipedians have marked as needing work.  We appreciate that you have signed up to receive suggestions regularly; your contributions make Wikipedia better — thanks for helping!


If you have feedback on how to make SuggestBot better, please let us know on SuggestBot's talk page. -- SuggestBot (talk) 23:25, 1 July 2021 (UTC)

Administrators' newsletter – July 2021


News and updates for administrators from the past month (June 2021).








 Administrator changes

 Trialpears
 AGK • Eliz81 • Mulad • ThaddeusB • Vianello • Who
 Lacrimosus → Ikuzaf


 Interface administrator changes

 Ragesoss










 CheckUser changes

 AGK • DGG


 Oversighter changes

 AGK


 




 Guideline and policy news

Consensus has been reached to delete all books in the book namespace. There was rough consensus that the deleted books should still be available on request at WP:REFUND even after the namespace is removed.
An RfC is open to discuss the next steps following a trial which automatically applied pending changes to TFAs.


 Technical news

IP addresses of unregistered users are to be hidden from everyone. There is a rough draft of how IP addresses may be shown to users who need to see them. This currently details allowing administrators, checkusers, stewards and those with a new usergroup to view the full IP address of unregistered users. Editors with at least 500 edits and an account over a year old will be able to see all but the end of the IP address in the proposal. The ability to see the IP addresses hidden behind the mask would be dependent on agreeing to not share the parts of the IP address they can see with those who do not have access to the same information. Accessing part of or the full IP address of a masked editor would also be logged. Comments on the draft are being welcomed at the talk page.


 Arbitration

The community authorised COVID-19 general sanctions have been superseded by the COVID-19 discretionary sanctions following a motion at a case request. Alerts given and sanctions placed under the community authorised general sanctions are now considered alerts for and sanctions under the new discretionary sanctions.


Discuss this newsletter
Subscribe
Archive
Sent by MediaWiki message delivery (talk) 11:27, 3 July 2021 (UTC)
A goat for you!



This is your effort on Wikipedia. Keep it up!


V. E. (talk) 17:26, 5 July 2021 (UTC)



Kepa requested redirects enquiry
There are examples of these sort of redirects. For example: James (footballer) and Jorginho (footballer, born December 1991) - these are pseudonyms and not actual names, so it should apply for Kepa as fans usually refer to him as that, as said in his article. —&nbsp;Preceding unsigned comment added by 92.237.102.75 (talk) 18:10, 5 July 2021 (UTC)
A kitten for you!



Thank you, Qwerfjkl, for the help you gave me on Teahouse. I hope you're not allergic to cats! 


Busypencil


Busypencil (talk) 18:27, 7 July 2021 (UTC)

@Busypencil I just created a template for this: Template:IPuser2. ―Qwerfjkltalk 18:52, 7 July 2021 (UTC)





Articles for Creation July 2021 Backlog Elimination Drive





Hello Qwerfjkl: 


WikiProject Articles for creation is holding a  month long Backlog Drive!

The goal of this drive is to eliminate the backlog of unreviewed articles. The drive is running until 31 July 2021.


Barnstars will be given out as awards at the end of the drive.

There is currently a backlog of over 2500 articles, so start reviewing articles. We're looking forward to your help!




Sent by MediaWiki message delivery (talk) on behalf of Wikipedia:WikiProject Articles for Creation at 21:54, 7 July 2021 (UTC). If you do not wish to recieve future notification, please remove your name from the mailing list.

Wikipedia:Articles for creation/Redirects and categories


Hello, Qwerfjkl,


First, thanks for your work here. But I do have one request, when you decline redirect request, you typically ask the editor to supply you with relevant information that would justify the redirect. But then you close the request as declined. Most editors, especially new ones, will only see the message that the request was declined and not open the discussion to see your request. So, could you leave the declined requests open for at least a day after you've declined them instead of immediately closing them? Then it would give the requester an opportunity to respond. Thank you. Liz Read! Talk! 19:06, 28 June 2021 (UTC)

@Liz Enterprisey's script does this, so Enterprisey might need to change the script to allow this. —Qwerfjkltalk 19:12, 28 June 2021 (UTC)
@Liz I could, however, add {{tb}}, which would be easier. —Qwerfjkltalk 19:36, 29 June 2021 (UTC)
Hello, Qwerfjkl,
First, thanks for the talk page notice. I don't always check for pings. If the script that closes discussions does this, then I guess I should really be talking to Enterprisey. It would be great if the script just closed a discussion without hatting it. Liz Read! Talk! 17:10, 5 July 2021 (UTC)
Enterprisey is probably busy due to this currently, so I'll add {{tb}} in the meantime. An ideal solution would be to have a watered-down version of the current AfC reviewed template for redirects. ―Qwerfjkltalk 20:42, 8 July 2021 (UTC)
Draft:List of Atlas LV3C launches


Hi. You recentlly declined List of Atlas LV3C launches. I believe that the issues have been fixed, and resumbitted it. Can you review it? —&nbsp;Preceding unsigned comment added by 100.2.238.109 (talk) 10:44, 9 July 2021 (UTC)

Brearley School alumni or alumnae


Dear Qwerfjkl, thank you for your message, I tried unsuccessfully to ask for the category to be renamed, I give up, best regards, --Pierrette13 (talk) 07:37, 10 July 2021 (UTC)

July 2021



 Please stop your disruptive editing.
If you are engaged in an article content dispute with another editor, discuss the matter with the editor at their talk page, or the article's talk page, and seek consensus with them. Alternatively you can read Wikipedia's dispute resolution page, and ask for independent help at one of the relevant noticeboards.
If you are engaged in any other form of dispute that is not covered on the dispute resolution page, seek assistance at Wikipedia's Administrators' noticeboard/Incidents.

If you continue to disrupt Wikipedia, as you did at Draft:Servants of Christ the King, you may be blocked from editing. Creating multiple copies of the draft in a way that appears to be vandalism. Robert McClenon (talk) 21:54, 12 July 2021 (UTC)

In reviewing your history, which is constructive, it appears that you may have accidentally had some sort of editing malfunction or script malfunction.  If so, please do whatever is necessary so that this doesn't happen again.  Robert McClenon (talk) 22:02, 12 July 2021 (UTC)
@Robert McClenon Oops. This is a problem with User:BrandonXLF's Quick editor, which appears to have duplicated the article every time I made an edit via it, though the duplication didn't (I think) appear for me. Sorry for any problems caused. ―Qwerfjkltalk 06:13, 13 July 2021 (UTC)
I have notified the originator of the script.  Robert McClenon (talk) 13:13, 13 July 2021 (UTC)
A barnstar for you!






Short Description Barnstar


Thanks so much for helping out with my task at the Reward Board! 🐶 EpicPupper (he/him | talk, FAQ, contribs | please use {{ping}} on reply) 21:00, 13 July 2021 (UTC)

Paolo Ruggiero page


Qwerfjkl,
I am trying to understand what is the problem with the references I have provided.
Paolo Ruggiero is a page I already created on wikipedia Italia, so this is a translation.
If the references where ok for the Italian page, why shouldn't they be fine for the English version? I have also added extra references, but I cannot add references for the early years of Paolo Ruggiero's life. Do you expect from me to upload his birth certificate? or the bachelor's degree?
Thank you in advance for helping me to understand. —&nbsp;Preceding unsigned comment added by Falcone181 (talk • contribs) 20:14, 14 July 2021 (UTC)

@Falcone181 For a biography of a living person (BLP), almost every statement should be supported by a reliable source. Please read Wikipedia:BLPSOURCES. ―Qwerfjkltalk 06:13, 15 July 2021 (UTC)
Also, the Italian Wikipedia may have different policies on both BLPs and sources. ―Qwerfjkltalk 06:14, 15 July 2021 (UTC)
Regex


Hi, can you please create a replacement rule for me that will replace the section == তথ্যসূত্র == with == তথ্যসূত্র ==
{{সূত্র তালিকা}}. Here {{সূত্র তালিকা}} will be in new line.  It will help me a lot to clean a large number articles in bnwiki. Thank you in advance. ~Yahya (✉) • 15:53, 14 July 2021 (UTC)

@Yahya Something like: 
Replace: \=\= তথ্যসূত্র \=\=
With: == তথ্যসূত্র ==
{{সূত্র তালিকা}} ―Qwerfjkltalk 15:58, 14 July 2021 (UTC)
@Qwerfjkl It works. Thanks. ~Yahya (✉) • 13:22, 15 July 2021 (UTC)








Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_talk:Qwerfjkl/Archive_2&amp;oldid=1044071025"
		
	


	



	Navigation menu
	
		
	
		
		Personal tools
	
	
		
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		
	


		
			
	
		
		Namespaces
	
	
		
		User pageTalk
		
	


			
	
	
		
		Variants
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


		
		
			
	
		
		Views
	
	
		
		ReadEditView history
		
	


			
	
	
		
		More
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


			
	
			
				Search
			
		
			
				
				
				
				
			
		
	


		
	
	

	
		
	
	
	
		
		Navigation
	
	
		
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		
	


	
	
		
		Contribute
	
	
		
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		
	


	
		
		Tools
	
	
		
		What links hereRelated changesUser contributionsUser logsView user groupsUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information
		
	


	
		
		Print/export
	
	
		
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		
	


	
	
		
		Languages
	
	
		
		
		
	






	
	 This page was last edited on 13 September 2021, at 12:06&nbsp;(UTC).
	Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


	
	Privacy policy
	About Wikipedia
	Disclaimers
	Contact Wikipedia
	Mobile view
	Developers
	Statistics
	Cookie statement


	
	
	







