



Wikipedia:Courtesy vanishing - Wikipedia



























	
	
	
	
	
	Wikipedia:Courtesy vanishing
	
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		
		
		
		
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		



"WP:RTL" redirects here. For text directionality, see Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Text formatting §&nbsp;Mixed right-to-left text.
For current Wikimedia practice, see meta:Right to vanish.
This page documents an English Wikipedia behavioral guideline.
It is a generally accepted standard that editors should attempt to follow, though it is best treated with common sense, and occasional exceptions may apply. Any substantive edit to this page should reflect consensus. When in doubt, discuss first on the talk page.ShortcutsWP:RTVWP:VANISHWP:CVANWP:LEAVEWP:VANISHED
This page in a nutshell: Courtesy vanishing means any user in good standing—upon leaving Wikipedia forever—may request renaming of their account; deletion or blanking of user pages; and possibly the deletion or blanking of discussions related to their conduct. This courtesy vanishing does not include the deletion of user contributions, and normally does not include the deletion of user talk pages.
Wikipedia guidelines
Guidelines list
Policies list

Behavioral

Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Courtesy vanishing
Disruptive editing
Don't bite the newcomers
Don't edit to make a point
Etiquette
Don't game the system
User pages
Other behavioral guidelines
WMF friendly space policy

Discussions
Talk page guidelines
Signatures


Content
Citing sources
External links
Reliable sources
medicine
Fringe theories
Non-free content
Offensive material
Don't copy long texts
Don't create hoaxes
Patent nonsense
Other content guidelines

Editing

Article size
Be bold
Edit summary
Understandability
Other editing guidelines

Organization
Categories, lists, templates
Categorization
Disambiguation


Style
Manual of Style
contents
lists
tables

Deletion
Deletion process
Speedy keep
Deletion guidelines for administrators

Project content
Project pages
WikiProjects
Templates
User pages
User boxes
Shortcuts
Subpages

Other
Naming conventions
Notability
vte


The usual way to leave Wikipedia is simply to stop editing and abandon your account. A courtesy vanishing may be implemented when a user in good standing decides not to return and for whatever reason wishes to make their contributions harder to find or to remove their association with their edits. When there is no administrative need to retain the information, a permanently departing user may request that a wide range of user pages, and other pages that affect them alone, be deleted on departure. The user account is renamed; user pages are blanked or deleted; and pages related to the user's conduct may be deleted, blanked, or moved. Contributions, logs, signatures, and user-page templates (for example, templates related to blocks or bans) are usually not removed. User talk pages are usually not deleted.


Courtesy vanishing is discretionary and may be refused. It is not intended to be temporary. It is not a way to avoid scrutiny or sanctions. It is not a fresh start and does not guarantee anonymity. Any of the deleted pages may be undeleted after a community discussion. If the user returns, the "vanishing" will likely be fully reversed, the old and new accounts will be linked, and any outstanding sanctions or restrictions will be resumed.


As all contributions are licensed under the CC BY-SA 3.0 License and the GFDL and must be attributed to a user, it is not possible to delete an account.

Contents

1 Vanishing from Wikipedia
2 How to request a courtesy vanishing
3 What vanishing is not
4 Deletion of user talk pages
5 See also
6 Notes



Vanishing from Wikipedia


Vanishing typically involves the following:

A global renamer or steward responds to a rename request and renames the account to, for example, "Renamed user 157yagz5r48a5f1a1f".
References in the history of pages to the former username are replaced with references to the replacement username. Note that signatures (on user talk pages, article talk pages and project discussion pages) will not be changed, and will, by default, be redirected to the new user name. You can ask for this redirect to be removed.
The account's user page and subpages are deleted. User talk pages are rarely deleted, and may be undeleted by community consensus.
This action will be global due to account unification.
How to request a courtesy vanishing 


First, consider whether you really want to vanish, or whether a simple retirement or clean start might be more appropriate. Vanishing is a last resort and should only be used when you wish to stop editing forever and also to hide as many of your past associations as possible.


If you decide to vanish, you may wish to blank or delete your user page and any subpages in your userspace. To request deletion of any existing pages, add the {{db-user}} tag to the top of each page, and an admin will delete the page for you. Do not create a page just to request its deletion. Or you can replace your userpage with the {{Retired}} template. Note that your user talk pages will normally not be deleted except in rare cases (see below). 


If you wish to take advantage of courtesy vanishing, you can use one of the following methods to make your request:

The best way is to visit Special:GlobalRenameRequest to access the rename request interface. Requests made this way will be processed by global renamers or stewards. Please specify "request to vanish" in the reason field; your requested username should be of the form "Renamed user nnnnnnnnnn" replacing n with random characters.
If your request is particularly sensitive, you may contact the stewards via e-mail and ask that your account be renamed, giving "request for courtesy vanishing" as the subject. Please use the contact interface at meta:Special:EmailUser/Wikimedia Global-renamers or email renamerswikimedia.org. If you send the mail directly, please include some kind of proof that the account is indeed yours. Please be aware a record is kept in the OTRS system that can be seen by anyone with access to the renamers email queue. This is restricted to current renamers, stewards and Wikimedia Foundation staff.


There is a public request page for name change requests, but this is not recommended because it will leave a public record of your request to vanish that cannot itself be hidden.


If you have questions about vanishing, or have concerns that might be addressable by a less permanent method, you may want to contact a Functionary or a member of the Arbitration Committee for advice.

What vanishing is not
Vanishing is not a way to start over with a fresh account. When you request a courtesy vanishing, it is understood that you will not be returning. If you want to start over, please follow the directions at Clean start instead of (not in addition to) this page.  If you make a request to vanish, and then start over with a new account, and are then discovered, the vanishing procedure may be reversed, and your old and new accounts may be linked.
Vanishing is not a way to avoid criticism, sanctions, or other negative attention, unless you really mean to leave permanently. As such, it might not be extended to users who have been disruptive, who leave when they lose the trust of the community, or when they are blocked or banned.
It is not a way for accounts affiliated with organizations or interests opposed to the Wikipedia community to erase documentation that they edited Wikipedia. This could happen when an account associated with a business, for example, is criticized on their userpage for the way they edited Wikipedia.
Vanishing is not the best way to remove personal information that you may have accidentally revealed about yourself, especially if you want to continue editing. See the page on Oversight instead.
If you want to change your username, users in good standing are free to request a change of username at any time. All contributions made under the old username will be re-attributed to the new username, including deleted contributions, preserving the edit history.[a]
Deletion of user talk pages
ShortcutWP:CVUT


While user pages and subpages may be deleted, the deletion of established users' talk pages is invariably controversial, and is the rare exception, not the rule. This is because user talk pages, unlike other user pages, have largely been written by other editors. User talk pages should not be speedy deleted by admins. Users who wish to delete user talk pages should consult a Functionary or the Arbitration Committee. Community consensus is that user talk pages should be deleted only where there is a compelling reason to do so—related to serious privacy concerns and the potential for real-world harm. Otherwise, user talk pages should be deleted only at MfD. Any deletion can be challenged and overturned at deletion review. User talk pages should never be moved to become user subpages to facilitate deletion.

See also
Wikipedia:Anonymity
Wikipedia:Changing username
Wikipedia:Clean start
meta:Right to vanish
Wikipedia:Retiring
Wikipedia:Sleeper account
Template:Userbox Ex-Wikipedia
Wikipedia:Missing Wikipedians
phab:T8397
Notes


^ Old signatures embedded in past posts cannot be changed due to technical limitations of the MediaWiki software, although in some cases collapsing or blanking is possible.


vteWikipedia key policies and guidelines&nbsp;(?)
Five pillars
Ignore all rules
Content&nbsp;(?)P
Verifiability
No original research
Neutral point of view
What Wikipedia is not
Biographies of living persons
Copyright (Copyright violations)
Image use
Article titles
G
Notability
Autobiography
Citing sources
Reliable sources
Reliable sources (medicine)
Do not include copies of lengthy primary sources
Plagiarism
Don't create hoaxes
Fringe theories
Patent nonsense
External links
Conduct&nbsp;(?)P
Civility
Consensus
Harassment
Vandalism
Ignore all rules
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Edit warring
Dispute resolution
Sockpuppetry
No legal threats
Child protection
Paid-contribution disclosure
G
Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers
Courtesy vanishing
Responding to threats of harm
Talk page guidelines
Signatures
Deletion&nbsp;(?)P
Deletion policy
Proposed deletion
Biographies
Criteria for speedy deletion
Attack page
Oversight
Revision deletion
Enforcement&nbsp;(?)P
Administrators
Banning
Blocking
Page protection
Editing&nbsp;(?)P
Editing policy
G
Article size
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Broad-concept article
Understandability
Style
Manual of Style
Contents
Accessibility
Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists
Classification
Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace
Project content&nbsp;(?)G
Project namespace
WikiProjects
User pages
User boxes
Shortcuts
Subpages
WMF&nbsp;(?)P
Terms of Use
List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy

List of all policies and guidelines
P: List of policies
G: List of guidelines
Summaries of values and principles

vteWikipedia accounts and governanceUnregistered (IP) users
Why create an account?
Create an account
Request an account
IPs are human too
IP addresses are not people
IP hopper
Registered users
New account
Logging in
Reset passwords
Username policy
Changing username
Usernames for administrator attention
Unified login or SUL
Alternate account
Account security
Password strength requirements
User account security
Personal security practices
Two-factor authentication
2FA for AWB
Committed identity
On privacy, confidentiality and discretion
Compromised accounts
Blocks, bans, sanctions,
global actions
Blocking policy
FAQ
Admins guide
Tools
Autoblock
Appealing a block
Guide to appealing blocks
UTRS Unblock Ticket Request System
Blocking IP addresses
Range blocks
IPv6
Open proxies
Banning policy
ArbCom appeals
Sanctions
Personal sanctions
General sanctions
Discretionary sanctions and Log
Essay
Long-term abuse
Standard offer
Global actions
Related to accounts
Sockpuppetry
Single-purpose account
Sleeper account
Vandalism-only account
Wikibreak
Enforcer
Retiring
Courtesy vanishing
Clean start
Quiet return
User groups
 and global user groups
Requests for permissions
Admin instructions
Admin guide
Account creator
PERM
(Auto) confirmed
PERM
Autopatrolled
PERM
AutoWikiBrowser
PERM
Bot
Request
Edit filter helper
Request
Event coordinator
PERM
Extended confirmed
PERM
File mover
PERM
IP block exempt
Request
Mass message sender
PERM
New page reviewer
PERM
Page mover
PERM
Pending changes reviewer
PERM
Rollback
PERM
Template editor
PERM
Global rights policy
OTRS Volunteer Response Team
Advanced user groups
Administrator
RfA
Bureaucrat
RfB
CheckUser and Oversight
Request
Edit filter manager
Request
Interface administrator
Request
Founder
Importer
Researcher
Committees and related
Arbitration Committee
Bot approvals group
Functionaries
Clerks
SPI clerks
ArbCom clerks
Governance
Administration
FAQ
Formal organization
Editorial oversight and control
Quality control
Wikimedia Foundation
Board
Founder's seat
Meta-Wiki
Proposals
WikiProjects
Elections
Policies and guidelines
Petitions
Noticeboards
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Reforms






Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Courtesy_vanishing&amp;oldid=1052186014"
		Categories: Wikipedia behavioral guidelinesHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected project pages
	


	



	Navigation menu
	
		
	
		
		Personal tools
	
	
		
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		
	


		
			
	
		
		Namespaces
	
	
		
		Project pageTalk
		
	


			
	
	
		
		Variants
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


		
		
			
	
		
		Views
	
	
		
		ReadView sourceView history
		
	


			
	
	
		
		More
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


			
	
			
				Search
			
		
			
				
				
				
				
			
		
	


		
	
	

	
		
	
	
	
		
		Navigation
	
	
		
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		
	


	
	
		
		Contribute
	
	
		
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		
	


	
		
		Tools
	
	
		
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
		
	


	
		
		Print/export
	
	
		
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		
	


	
		
		In other projects
	
	
		
		Meta-Wiki
		
	


	
	
		
		Languages
	
	
		
		العربيةتۆرکجهDeutschΕλληνικάفارسیFrançais한국어ItalianoمصرىNederlandsPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSimple EnglishکوردیSvenskaTiếng Việt中文
		Edit links
	






	
	 This page was last edited on 27 October 2021, at 21:14&nbsp;(UTC).
	Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


	
	Privacy policy
	About Wikipedia
	Disclaimers
	Contact Wikipedia
	Mobile view
	Developers
	Statistics
	Cookie statement


	
	
	







