Paris 2024 Summer Olympics - Summer Olympic Games in France



  
    

  




        
            IOC

        
        
            Beijing 2022

        
        
            Paris 2024

        
        
            Milano Cortina 2026

        
        
            LA 2028

        
        
            Brisbane 2032

        
        
            Museum

        
        
            Shop

        

  
    




    








  Select your language

  
    
      English
    
    
        English
        Français
        Deutsch
        Italiano
        Português
        Español
        日本語
        العربية
        中文
        हिंदी
        한국어
        Русский
    
  

  


  



  
    
  

  




        
            Olympic Games

                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                Loading...
                            
                        
                    
                
        
        
            Athletes

        
        
            Sports

        
        
            News

                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                Loading...
                            
                        
                    
                
        
        
            Olympic Channel

        

  
    




  







  

      
        
        
        
      
  






    
        
            
                
                Loading...
            
        

        
        
    

  

  Paris 
2024DateJuly 26 - August 11Countdown970 daysCountryFranceOfficial website01:12An emblem that brings together three iconic symbols - Meet MarianneParis 2024 | Olympic GamesThe tradition of the Olympic flag handover ceremonyParis 2024 Olympic Games: Top five things to knowParis 202400:47French team enters the stageParis 2024 | Olympic GamesAbout the GamesThe vision of Paris 2024

Paris 2024 will see a new vision of Olympism in action, delivered in a unique spirit of international celebration.

We will offer one of the world’s most inspirational cities as a memorable stage for the athletes – and a truly global platform to promote them, and their incredible stories.

And we will partner with the entire Olympic family to demonstrate that, more than ever after an extremely challenging period, sport has a unique power to help create a better world.

Our plan features 95 percent existing or temporary venues, and every single one has a clear, defined legacy aligned with the city’s long-term development plans.

The sporting celebration will flow along the Seine, from the new Olympic Village, just 15 minutes from Paris city centre, to such city centre landmarks as the Eiffel Tower and the Grand Palais.

Paris has welcomed people from all over the world – including the founding fathers of the Olympic Movement – for hundreds of years, to collaborate and inspire each other; to shape ideas and forge the future.

In 2024, we will stage magnificent and meaningful Games that will set a new milestone in sporting history, in the city where Pierre de Coubertin first imagined the potential of a world united by sport.Sustainability and legacy

Paris 2024 aims to host the most sustainable Games ever. Paris 2024 has developed a unique sustainability and legacy strategy fully aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals supported by WWF France, the Yunus Centre and UNICEF France. Its three pillars are sport at the heart of society, a more inclusive society and environmental excellence.

Crucially, Paris 2024 will endeavour to be the first Games fully aligned with the Paris Climate Agreement, leaving a positive legacy at local and international levels and a positive impact for sport.

It will have a ground-breaking emissions reduction strategy and aims to deliver a 55 percent smaller carbon footprint than the Olympic Games London 2012, widely seen as a reference for sustainable Games.

This commitment can be underpinned by the Paris 2024 clean transport policy, which includes:100 percent of spectators travelling to the venues by public transport, bike or walking;Free access to the Paris transport system for Games ticket-holders;A zero emission bus fleet in service during the Games;France’s high-performance rail network linking 85 percent of larger French cities to Paris in under four hours, while also connecting Paris to many major European capitals;Paris is located within the heart of Europe, with many capital cities less than three hours away by rail or plane.

The Paris 2024 Olympic Village will be a showcase of sustainable development with low carbon and eco-designed buildings, using 100 percent renewable energy and having a zero waste policy strategy.

With 95 percent of venues already built or temporary structures, the environmental impact of any Games-related construction will be minimal. With 85 percent of competition venues situated less than 30 minutes from the Olympic Village, athletes’ travel times will be minimal, in zero emission vehicles. The Olympic Stadium will be just five minutes away from the Olympic Village.

The Paris 2024 Candidature Committee has been certified ISO 20121 and carbon neutral, thanks to its compensation policy.Athlete's viewQ&amp;A with Marie-Amélie Le Fur, para athletics

Marie-Amélie Le Fur is Co-Chair of the Paris 2024 Athletes’ Committee. She has won eight medals in the last two editions of the Paralympic Games.How would the sustainable Games plan benefit the athletes of your community?

“The Paris 2024 Games plan is not only designed to ensure a great athlete experience but also to ensure a lasting legacy for the community. The Aquatics Centre will be used as a new elite training centre and a recreational swimming facility, deeply needed in an area of Paris where 50 percent of children do not know how to swim. Beyond competition venues, EUR 100 million will be invested in local sports facilities, many of which will be used as training venues during the Games, ensuring the benefits of hosting the Games are shared with the whole host territory. A special focus will be put on improving these facilities to make them fully accessible. Finally, a key and invaluable impact of hosting the 2024 Games in Paris will be the change of mentality with respect to people with an impairment, not only within the sports community, but across the whole of French society.”

* Text, images and illustrations provided by Paris 2024Olympic Games





    
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        




	
        
Olympic Games        
        
Beijing 2022        
        
Results &amp; Medals        
        
Replays &amp; Highlights        
        
All Olympic Games        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
Olympic Channel        
        
TV Channel        
        
Live Events        
        
Original Series        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
News        
        
Podcast        
        
Topics        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
Explore        
        
Athletes        
        
Sports        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
More        
        
International Olympic Committee        
        
Museum        
        
Shop        
        
About Us        
        
Contact Centre        
        
Sitemap        
        
Careers        
	


                    

                    

                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    
                        


  

        
          
              
          
        
        
          
              
          
        

  


                        




	
        
menu-to-hide-DO-NOT-REMOVE        
        
Cookie Policy        
        
Cookie Settings        
        
Privacy Policy        
        
Terms of Service        
	


                        

  
    

            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            

    
  
                    
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            TM © Olympic Channel Services S.L. 2021 - All rights reserved
                        
                    
                
            
        
    



