



Help:Logging in - Wikipedia



























	
	
	
	
	
	Help:Logging in
	
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		
		
		
		
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Help page about logging into Wikimedia
For information on logs of actions performed on Wikipedia, see Help:Log.
Wikipedia information pageThis is an information page.
It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting.ShortcutsH:LOGINH:LI
Create a new account
Log into an existing account
Play media  This video tutorial describes the steps in creating a user account on the English Wikipedia


It is not necessary to log in to Wikipedia before viewing or editing pages. It does provide additional features, and is generally recommended. If you do not wish to have your IP address known, then you should log in or create an account. It is quick and simple to create a personal user account.

Contents

1 Logging in
2 Why log in?

2.1 Creating an account


3 How to log in

3.1 Login issues and problems
3.2 What if I forget my username?
3.3 What if I forget my password?


4 How to set preferences
5 Your user page and user talk page
6 Logging out
7 Editing while logged out
8 Keeping your account secure
9 See also



Logging in


Creating a user account means that you supply a username (your real name or a nickname) and a password. The system will reject a username that is already in use. A user account is created only once. You are then "logged in". The next time you log in, you supply your username again and demonstrate with the password that you are the same person. (Do not share your password with other people; this can allow them to misuse your account, which could lead to it being blocked.)


Edits that you make are recorded under your username. If you are not logged in your edits are labelled in page history with your IP address.


User accounts created since May 2008 will be "unified" (that is, accessible from all Wikimedia projects). An older, non-unified account can be unified at Special:MergeAccount; unified users can use that page to check the status of their unified account. Preferences are currently set independently on each wiki. See m:Single login.

Why log in?
Main page: Wikipedia:Why create an account?


You don't have to log in to read Wikipedia. You don't even have to log in to edit most of Wikipedia (there are some exceptions).


However, it's still a good idea to log in, for these reasons:

Other users will be able to recognise you by your username when you make changes to pages. As a "name" an IP address is somewhat clumsy. Also, if you use computers at different locations (home, office, internet cafe, etc.) you have a different IP-address in each case; even in the same location, depending on the Internet connection, the IP-address may be different each time. Therefore, a username is better to maintain an identity.
You will have your own user page where you can write a bit about yourself, and a user talk page which you can use to communicate with other users.
You will also be able to make user subpages, as an add-on to your user page.
You will be able to mark an edit as minor, which avoids inconvenience for other users.
You will be able to keep track of changes to pages you are interested in using a watchlist.
If you choose to give an email address, other users will be able to contact you by email.  This feature is anonymous&nbsp;— the user who emails you will not know your email address.  You don't have to give your email address if you don't want to.
Check the privacy policy of the individual site you're visiting, if any (for example, Wikipedia's privacy policy)
You will be able to rename pages.
You will be able to set your own preferences, to change things such as:
The number of pages displayed in Recent changes
The fonts, colours and layout of the site, by using different skins.
Creating an account


To create an account, click on the Create account link at the top right of the page. You will need to provide a username and password, as well as answer a visual "captcha" test. Users with text, speech, or legacy browsers will be unable to create an account if they cannot view this captcha image. If you are unable to view captchas, you can request for an account to be created for you at Wikipedia:Request an account.


You may also be unable to create an account if it contains certain symbols (particularly the '@' symbol, as well as certain non-Latin characters) or words, or if it is too similar to that of an existing user. In that case, you will also have to request an account. If your IP address has account creation blocked, you can either request to be unblocked or request an account.

How to log in
"WP:COOKIES" redirects here. For the essay on notability, see Wikipedia:Run-of-the-mill. For WikiLove templates, see Wikipedia:WikiLove.


ShortcutWP:COOKIES


First, make sure that your browser accepts cookies. Some browsers can accept or reject cookies from individual sites; users of these should configure the browser to accept cookies from each wiki you plan to edit, such as wikipedia.org.


Click on the Log in link at the top-right corner of the page. You will be asked to enter your username and your password in the following screen. If you do not have an account, you will need to create one first. Once finished, click on the Log in button to finish logging in.


If you click on Keep me logged in (for up to 365 days), you will not have to give your password again when you access Wikipedia from the same computer. This feature will only work if your password was not automatically generated by the software.


Logging in and setting preferences were previously done separately on each wiki. Since May 2008 it has been possible to use the same username, password and email address across all Wikimedia wikis, without needing to register an account on each wiki. For more details, see m:Help:Unified login.

Login issues and problems


If you find yourself unable to log in, you may have one of the problems addressed in the following paragraphs. If none of them seem to apply, ask for help at the help desk.

The login link is obscured
If you cannot click on the login link, for instance because it is obscured by other text, use this direct link to the login page. It may be helpful to add the page to your browser's bookmarks/favourites.  (This problem may occur on certain browsers when using a large minimum font size.)
My username and password are refused
Both usernames and passwords are case-sensitive on Wikipedia. Did you remember to type in the right capitalization? For example, if you registered under MyUserName, you will not be able to log in as Myusername (notice the subtle difference in spelling). The same goes for your password. The only exception is the first character of the username, which is capital by default.
I get logged out just after logging in
There are a few possible causes of this problem:
If you appear to have logged in, but as soon as you try to look at a page after 'Log in successful', you appear logged out again, it is very likely to be a cookie problem. See this brief tutorial on how to enable cookies for your browser.
Make sure your computer's date and time are set correctly; if they are not, cookies may expire before they are supposed to. Note that some firewall and ad-blocking software may interfere with the cookie that Wikipedia uses to keep a person logged in.
Some ISPs use transparent proxies which cause problems logging in. This happens most often with some satellite ISPs (particularly HughesNet/DirecWay/DirecPC).
Occasionally, a user may find themself "automatically" logged out between beginning an edit and saving it, or when switching between multiple wiki pages open in multiple windows or tabs. This can be a result of your browser's cookie, cache, or firewall settings, but sometimes, especially during heavy server load, the system can "glitch" and your login information will be lost, resulting in a logout.
Other causes
If you are absolutely sure that the login information you have entered is correct, then someone else may have compromised your account. In this case, your account may not be recoverable unless you can prove that the account is yours. In rare cases, your account may have been renamed or usurped, especially if it has few or no edits. You can see if your account has been renamed by viewing the user rename log and search for your username in the "Title" field.
I get a message that my IP address has been autoblocked
Follow the instructions listed on screen on how to request an unblock or send an email to the unblock-en-i mailing list.


 

What if I forget my username?


If you have forgotten your username, these steps may help you recover it:

Depending on your browser settings, you may find that the log in page redisplays the last username that was used on that computer.
If you have received any emails from Wikipedia, these will include the username.
If you can remember the names of any of Wikipedia pages that you edited while logged in, the username will be listed as part of the page history of those pages.
If you can remember the first part of the name, this search page may help you remember the rest of it.
If you previously entered an email address when signing up for the account or in your Preferences, and you still have access to that email account, and you did not tick the preference checkbox "Send password reset emails only when both email address and username are provided", then you can go to the login screen and click 'Reset your password'. Enter that email address on the next screen (Special:PasswordReset), and the system will send an email containing, among other things, a reminder of your user name.


If none of these steps are successful you will have to start again with a new account. Wikipedia administrators will not be able to help you work out your username from your email address or your IP address.


 

What if I forget my password?
Main page: Help:Reset password


If you have forgotten your password, these steps may help you recover it:

If you have asked your web browser or a password manager to remember the password, you may be able to recover it from there.
If you previously entered an email address when signing up for the account or in your Preferences, and you still have access to that email account, then you can enter your username on the login screen and click 'Forgot your password?'. Enter your user name and that email address on the next screen (Special:PasswordReset), and the system will send a temporary password that will allow you to retrieve your account. You then have to change the password to one of your choice after you log in.
(Rare) If you have previously asked a Wikipedia tool such as AutoWikiBrowser to remember your password, and you still have access to the machine where the password is saved, then it may be possible to recover the saved password. Post at the tool's talk page for advice. Do not post the encrypted password.
(Rare) If you have a long-established account and have previously set up a "committed identity", and you still have the "secret string" (see Template:User committed identity for details), then it may be possible to recover the account. Post at the Administrators' noticeboard for advice. Do not post the secret string.


Otherwise you will have to create a new account under a different username. After doing this, it is advisable to explain the situation on the user page of the new account, to avoid sockpuppetry concerns.

How to set preferences


Click on the My preferences link at the top right of the page for various options, including:

Changing your password.
Changing the skin, which changes the way that the web pages look.


See Help:Preferences.

Your user page and user talk page


As a logged in user, you will be able to create your own user page and user talk page.  When you are logged in, you will see your username displayed at the top right of the page.  Click on this to get to your user page, which you can edit in the same way as any other wiki page.


Most users write a little bit about themselves and their interests on their user page.


You also have a User talk page. You can access this by clicking on the Talk link next to your username at the top right of the page. Other people may write messages in your user talk page by editing it, and you can respond. See Help:Talk page for more.

Logging out


You can log out any time by clicking on the Log out link at the top right of the page. And after it, you will be using an IP to read Wikipedia. To prevent the browser from remembering your username and suggesting it to the next user of the computer, remember to delete the Wikipedia cookies in your browser's privacy settings. Especially if you are using a public computer, you may want to delete all of the browser's recent history (Ctrl+⇧ Shift+Del in Firefox).


In the mobile version, click the menu icon at the top left and then the logout button to the right of your username.

Editing while logged out
ShortcutsWP:LOGGEDOUTWP:LOUT
See also: Wikipedia:Sockpuppetry §&nbsp;Editing while logged out, and Wikipedia:Signs of sockpuppetry §&nbsp;IP sockpuppetry


Occasionally an established editor will edit while logged out. While not usually an egregious issue, there can be some concerns about attribution and privacy.

If you made an edit without logging in, you cannot go back and directly tie that edit to your account. If your desire to account for the edit overrides your desire for anonymity, you can log in, make a dummy edit, and add a note in the edit summary about the previous edit.
If you make a comment on a talk page without logging in, then your signature will include your IP address. You can log in and edit the comment by replacing the signature; be aware that automated tools have used editing behavior like this to connect your username and IP address in public databases.
If you feel that the connection between the IP address and your username is an issue, then you can request that the edit be removed; see Wikipedia:Oversight#Policy and Wikipedia:Requests for oversight.


In Firefox (with the Greasemonkey add-on) or in Chrome, you can install a simple script that prevents editing while logged out on all Wikimedia Foundation sites. Once the script is installed and you click on Edit while logged out, it pops up a notice that you are not logged in and does not proceed. Note that it does not yet prevent editing by clicking on red links or by direct links to edit pages.

Keeping your account secure
See also: Wikipedia:Security


Users, especially administrators, should keep their accounts secure. If someone accesses your account and causes malicious damage, your reputation could be in trouble! Below are some tips on keeping your account secure:

Never give your Wikipedia password to anyone, not even users claiming to be sysop and staff!
Only enter your password on a Wikimedia site. Beware of fake sites. The domain name should end with wikipedia.org or wikimedia.org.
Keep your computer up-to-date with the latest anti-virus  and anti-spyware software.
Your password should be easy to remember, but hard to guess.
If you decide to log on using a public computer, remember to log out when done.
Be careful when running user scripts. Some scripts can be programmed to steal cookies and thus compromise accounts.
Consider committing to your identity by adding a cryptographic hash to your user page to prove that you are really the person behind your username.
See also


Help portal
Wikipedia:User special pages.
Wikipedia:Unified login
vteWikipedia help pages
Visit the Teahouse or the Help desk for an interactive Q &amp; A forum.

FAQs&nbsp;(?)
Reference desks&nbsp;(?)
Noticeboards&nbsp;(?)
Cheatsheet&nbsp;(?)
 Directories&nbsp;(?)
About Wikipedia&nbsp;(?)
Administration
Purpose
Principles
Policies and guidelines
What Wikipedia is not
Disclaimer&nbsp;(parental advice)
Making requests
Who writes Wikipedia?
Help for readers&nbsp;(?)
FAQ
Books
Copyright
Glossary
Mobile access
Navigation
Other languages
Searching
Students
Viewing media
Contributing
to Wikipedia&nbsp;(?)
Advice for young editors
Avoiding common mistakes
Etiquette
Simplified Manual of Style
Simplified rule-set
"Ignore all rules"
"The rules are principles"
Style-tips
Tip of the day
Your first article&nbsp;(article wizard)
Getting started&nbsp;(?)
Why create an account?
Introductions by topic
Graphics tutorials
Picture tutorial
IRC (live chat) tutorial
VisualEditor user guide
Dos and don'ts&nbsp;(?)
Accessibility
Biographies
Biographies (living)
Categorization
Consensus
Discussions
Disambiguation
Images
Leads
Links
Lists
References
Tables
Titles (of articles)
How-to pages and
information pages&nbsp;(?)
Appealing blocks
Article deletion
Categories
Citations/references
Referencing for beginners
Citation Style 1
Cite errors
References and page numbers
Convert
Diff
Editing
Minor edit
toolbar
edit conflict
Find sources
Files
Footnotes
Image deletion
Infoboxes
Linking&nbsp;(link color)
Logging in
Merging
Page name
Renaming pages
Redirect
Passwords
Email confirmation
Reverting
Simple vandalism cleanup
Talk pages&nbsp;(archiving
simple archiving)
User contributions
WP search protocol
Coding&nbsp;(?)
Wiki markup
Barcharts
Calculations
Characters
Columns
Hidden text
HTML
Lists
Magic words
Music symbols
Sections
Sounds
Tables
Templates
Transclusion
URL
Visual files
Directories&nbsp;(?)
Abbreviations
Contents (Encyclopedia proper)
Departments
Editor's index
Essays
FAQs
Glossary
Guidelines
Manual of Style 
Policies
Tasks
Tips
Tools
 Missing Manual

Ask for help on your talk page&nbsp;(?)
vteWikipedia technical helpGet personal technical help at the Teahouse, Help desk, Village pump (technical), talk pages or IRC.General
technical help
Browser notes
Bypass cache
Keyboard shortcuts
Editing
CharInsert
Edit conflict
Edit toolbar
Reverting
How to create a page
IRC
Tutorial
Mobile access
Multilingual support
Page history
Page information
Page name
Help
Printing
Software notices
Editnotice
Special Characters
Entering
User access levels
VisualEditor
User guide
Special
page-related
Special page help
Edit filter
Emailing users
Logging in
Reset passwords
Logs
Moving a page
Fixing cut-and-paste moves
Notifications/Echo
FAQ
Page Curation
Page import
Pending changes
Random pages
Recent changes
Related changes
Searching
Linksearch
Tags
User contributions
Watchlist
What links here
Wikitext
Wikitext
Cheatsheet
Columns
Line-break handling
Lists
Magic words
For beginners
Conditional expressions
Switch parser function
Time function
Redirects
Sections and TOCs
Tables
Introduction
Basics
Advanced table formatting
Collapsing
Conditional tables
Sorting
Using colours
Links and diffs
Links
Interlanguage
Interwiki
Permanent
Diffs
Simplest diff guide
Simple diff and link guide
Complete diff and link guide
Colon trick
Link color
Pipe trick
URLs
Media files: images,
videos and sounds
Media help
Files
Creation and usage
Moving files to Commons
Images
Introduction to images
Picture tutorial
Preparing images for upload
Uploading images
Options to hide an image
Extended image syntax
SVG help
Gallery tag
Graphics tutorials
Basic bitmap image editing
How to improve image quality
Graphics Lab resources
Sound file markup
Visual file markup
Other graphics
Family trees
Graphs and charts
How to create
Barcharts
To scale charts
Math formulas
Math symbols
LaTeX symbols
Rendering math
Musical scores
Musical symbols
Timeline
EasyTimeline syntax
WikiHiero syntax
Templates and
Lua modules
Templates
Advanced template coding
Template documentation
Template index
Template limits
Template sandbox and test cases
Citation templates
Lua help
Lua project
Resources
To do
Substitution
Purge
Job queue
Transclusion
Labeled section
Guide to Scribbling
Data structure 
Namespaces
Main/Article
Category
Draft
File
File description page
Help
Portal
Project/Wikipedia
Talk
Archiving
Simple
Template
User
User page design
MediaWiki
Bug reports and feature requests
System message
TimedMediaHandler extension
Module
Special
HTML and CSS
Cascading Style Sheets
HTML in wikitext
Catalogue of CSS classes
Common.js and common.css
User CSS for monospaced coding font
Classes in microformats
Markup validation
Span tags
Useful styles
Customisation
and tools
Preferences
Gadgets
Skins
Citation tools
Cleaning up vandalism tools
Customizing watchlists
Hide pages
IRC Scripts
User scripts
Guide
Techniques
User style
Tools
Alternative browsing
Browser tools
Editing tools
Navigation shortcuts
Optimum tool set
Wikimedia Cloud Services
Beta Features at MediaWiki
Automated editing
AfC helper script
AutoWikiBrowser
Bots
Creating
HotCat
Huggle
Navigation popups
RedWarn
Twinkle
WPCleaner
Inactive
igloo
STiki

See also: Category:Wikipedia how-to
Category:Wikipedia information pages
Further navigation at: Help pages
Administrators
Accessibility
Accounts
Bots
Referencing
Citation metadata
Templates
User scripts

vteWikipedia accounts and governanceUnregistered (IP) users
Why create an account?
Create an account
Request an account
IPs are human too
IP addresses are not people
IP hopper
Registered users
New account
Logging in
Reset passwords
Username policy
Changing username
Usernames for administrator attention
Unified login or SUL
Alternate account
Account security
Password strength requirements
User account security
Personal security practices
Two-factor authentication
2FA for AWB
Committed identity
On privacy, confidentiality and discretion
Compromised accounts
Blocks, bans, sanctions,
global actions
Blocking policy
FAQ
Admins guide
Tools
Autoblock
Appealing a block
Guide to appealing blocks
UTRS Unblock Ticket Request System
Blocking IP addresses
Range blocks
IPv6
Open proxies
Banning policy
ArbCom appeals
Sanctions
Personal sanctions
General sanctions
Discretionary sanctions and Log
Essay
Long-term abuse
Standard offer
Global actions
Related to accounts
Sockpuppetry
Single-purpose account
Sleeper account
Vandalism-only account
Wikibreak
Enforcer
Retiring
Courtesy vanishing
Clean start
Quiet return
User groups
 and global user groups
Requests for permissions
Admin instructions
Admin guide
Account creator
PERM
(Auto) confirmed
PERM
Autopatrolled
PERM
AutoWikiBrowser
PERM
Bot
Request
Edit filter helper
Request
Event coordinator
PERM
Extended confirmed
PERM
File mover
PERM
IP block exempt
Request
Mass message sender
PERM
New page reviewer
PERM
Page mover
PERM
Pending changes reviewer
PERM
Rollback
PERM
Template editor
PERM
Global rights policy
OTRS Volunteer Response Team
Advanced user groups
Administrator
RfA
Bureaucrat
RfB
CheckUser and Oversight
Request
Edit filter manager
Request
Interface administrator
Request
Founder
Importer
Researcher
Committees and related
Arbitration Committee
Bot approvals group
Functionaries
Clerks
SPI clerks
ArbCom clerks
Governance
Administration
FAQ
Formal organization
Editorial oversight and control
Quality control
Wikimedia Foundation
Board
Founder's seat
Meta-Wiki
Proposals
WikiProjects
Elections
Policies and guidelines
Petitions
Noticeboards
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Reforms






Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Help:Logging_in&amp;oldid=1045888399"
		Categories: Wikipedia information pagesWikipedia basic informationWikipedia featuresWikipedia interface helpHidden categories: Help pages with short descriptionWikipedia move-protected project pagesWikipedia semi-protected project pages
	


	



	Navigation menu
	
		
	
		
		Personal tools
	
	
		
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		
	


		
			
	
		
		Namespaces
	
	
		
		Help pageTalk
		
	


			
	
	
		
		Variants
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


		
		
			
	
		
		Views
	
	
		
		ReadView sourceView history
		
	


			
	
	
		
		More
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


			
	
			
				Search
			
		
			
				
				
				
				
			
		
	


		
	
	

	
		
	
	
	
		
		Navigation
	
	
		
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		
	


	
	
		
		Contribute
	
	
		
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		
	


	
		
		Tools
	
	
		
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
		
	


	
		
		Print/export
	
	
		
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		
	


	
		
		In other projects
	
	
		
		MediaWikiMeta-WikiWikibooksWikinewsWikiquoteWikisourceWikiversityWikivoyageWiktionary
		
	


	
	
		
		Languages
	
	
		
		العربيةAragonésAzərbaycancaবাংলাБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFøroysktGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어हिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaItalianoJawaქართულიLigureMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംMaltiमराठीBahasa MelayuMirandésNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskଓଡ଼ିଆپښتوភាសាខ្មែរPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSeelterskSicilianuසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSundaTagalogతెలుగుไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаVènetoייִדישYorùbá粵語中文
		Edit links
	






	
	 This page was last edited on 22 September 2021, at 23:45&nbsp;(UTC).
	Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


	
	Privacy policy
	About Wikipedia
	Disclaimers
	Contact Wikipedia
	Mobile view
	Developers
	Statistics
	Cookie statement


	
	
	







