Milano Cortina 2026 Winter Games



  
    

  




        
            IOC

        
        
            Beijing 2022

        
        
            Paris 2024

        
        
            Milano Cortina 2026

        
        
            LA 2028

        
        
            Brisbane 2032

        
        
            Museum

        
        
            Shop

        

  
    




    








  Select your language

  
    
      English
    
    
        English
        Français
        Deutsch
        Italiano
        Português
        Español
        日本語
        العربية
        中文
        हिंदी
        한국어
        Русский
    
  

  


  



  
    
  

  




        
            Olympic Games

                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                Loading...
                            
                        
                    
                
        
        
            Athletes

        
        
            Sports

        
        
            News

                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                Loading...
                            
                        
                    
                
        
        
            Olympic Channel

        

  
    




  







  

      
        
        
        
      
  






    
        
            
                
                Loading...
            
        

        
        
    

  

  Milano Cortina 
2026DateFebruary 6 - February 22Countdown1530 daysCountryItalyOfficial website04:15Futura00:48A new beginning01:34WATCH: Moment the 2026 Winter Olympics were awarded to Milan-Cortina d'AmpezzoMilano Cortina 2026 | Olympic Winter games00:36Cortina d'Ampezzo 1956 Olympics Trailer | White VertigoCortina d'Ampezzo 1956 | Olympic Winter gamesAbout the GamesVision of Milano Cortina 2026

Discover how the Milano Cortina Candidature Committee describes their vision for the Games and the legacy they plan to leave behind:

The Milano Cortina 2026 Candidature fully embraces the IOC’s Olympic Agenda 2020/New Norm, putting the long-term development strategies and challenges of the host cities and regions at the centre.

We will contribute to a golden decade of Olympic and Paralympic sport, placing Milano Cortina alongside other leading international cities, to help reposition the Games in modern society.

The selection of the venues is fully aligned with the ambition of northern Italy to become a world-class hub of excellence for winter sports. The Games will showcase the quality of the selected sports infrastructure and help to invest in renovating/upgrading those venues that need investments.

The Games will also be conducive to greater cooperation in the entire Alpine macro-region, to improve the attractiveness of the mountains as a place to live and reverse the trend of depopulation.

Finally, the Games are a unique opportunity to showcase Italy’s design style that has seen the “Made in Italy” brand become synonymous with excellence all over the world.Sustainability and legacy

Milano Cortina wants to build on its strong environmental credentials and use the Games to help accelerate sustainability plans, by exceeding ISO 20121: Event Sustainability Management System.

The Master Plan has been conceived to minimise the environmental impact, thanks to the wide use of existing infrastructures. The Strategic Environmental Assessment for the Milano Cortina 2026 Olympic Winter Games will ensure that environmental considerations are taken on board, with a coherent stakeholder engagement programme.

The legacy vision is to use the “power of the Games” as a catalyst to deliver our long-term strategic plans, identifying four priority themes: sport, social, economic and environmental.

A Sustainability and Legacy Permanent Forum will be immediately established to coordinate all the organisations with responsibilities for legacy delivery, through a comprehensive legacy programme, with quantified indicators and clear monitoring and evaluation.

Generation 2026 will play sports regularly, recycle three-quarters of the waste they produce, use sustainable means of transportation only, use sport to understand cultural diversity, and grow in a more inclusive and integrated society.

* Text provided by Milano Cortina 2026Olympic Games





    
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        




	
        
Olympic Games        
        
Beijing 2022        
        
Results &amp; Medals        
        
Replays &amp; Highlights        
        
All Olympic Games        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
Olympic Channel        
        
TV Channel        
        
Live Events        
        
Original Series        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
News        
        
Podcast        
        
Topics        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
Explore        
        
Athletes        
        
Sports        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
More        
        
International Olympic Committee        
        
Museum        
        
Shop        
        
About Us        
        
Contact Centre        
        
Sitemap        
        
Careers        
	


                    

                    

                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    
                        


  

        
          
              
          
        
        
          
              
          
        

  


                        




	
        
menu-to-hide-DO-NOT-REMOVE        
        
Cookie Policy        
        
Cookie Settings        
        
Privacy Policy        
        
Terms of Service        
	


                        

  
    

            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            

    
  
                    
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            TM © Olympic Channel Services S.L. 2021 - All rights reserved
                        
                    
                
            
        
    



