LA 2028 Summer Olympics - Summer Olympic Games in the USA



  
    

  




        
            IOC

        
        
            Beijing 2022

        
        
            Paris 2024

        
        
            Milano Cortina 2026

        
        
            LA 2028

        
        
            Brisbane 2032

        
        
            Museum

        
        
            Shop

        

  
    




    








  Select your language

  
    
      English
    
    
        English
        Français
        Deutsch
        Italiano
        Português
        Español
        日本語
        العربية
        中文
        हिंदी
        한국어
        Русский
    
  

  


  



  
    
  

  




        
            Olympic Games

                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                Loading...
                            
                        
                    
                
        
        
            Athletes

        
        
            Sports

        
        
            News

                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                Loading...
                            
                        
                    
                
        
        
            Olympic Channel

        

  
    




  







  

      
        
        
        
      
  






    
        
            
                
                Loading...
            
        

        
        
    

  

  LA 
2028DateJuly 21 - August 6Countdown2426 daysCountryUnited States of AmericaOfficial websiteAthletes, celebrities, artists: check out the LA28 logo creators!Athletics00:53The LA Coliseum cauldron is lit ahead of 2028!LA 2028 | Olympic GamesLos Angeles 1932: California welcomes the worldOriginals04:44:19Los Angeles 1984 Official Film | 16 Days of GloryOfficial FilmsAbout the GamesLA28 vision

Discover how the Los Angeles Candidature Committee describes their vision for the Games and the legacy they plan to leave behind:

For centuries, people have been following the sun to California – to a coastal paradise of beautiful weather, inspiring landscapes and an ocean of possibilities. Since it was first settled, LA – the City of Angels – has built a culture of progress by harnessing creativity and imagination for reinvention. Today, LA28 is inviting the world to follow the sun on a journey of sport and innovation destined to help transform the Games to:Deliver the ultimate personalised experience for the AthletesMaximise our existing sports infrastructure to ensure a sustainable long-term legacyProduce a fresh blend of sport and entertainment to help refresh the Olympic brand worldwide and capture the imagination of youthReignite America’s passion for the Olympic Movement for generations to comeEmbrace the principles of Olympic Agenda 2020 through fiscally prudent Games that deliver enduring benefits to the host city and the Olympic Movement

As a symbol of our vision, we will utilise LA’s brightest star, the sun. The sun not only shines on the thousands of athletes who live and train in Los Angeles, it serves as a powerful ally in the search for a more sustainable Games.

Today, the sun lights the Olympic flame. Tomorrow, it will ignite an energy revolution. By following the sun, LA 2028 will help reimagine a New Games for a New Era.Sustainability and legacy

Situated on a wide hilly coastal plain, Los Angeles is one of the most geographically diverse cities in the world with picturesque mountains, vibrant canyons, verdant valleys and world-renowned beaches. Bounded by the Pacific Ocean to the south and west, LA stretches from the foothills of the Santa Monica Mountains to the north down to the San Gabriel Mountains to the east, with canyons and valleys that are home to a vast array of wildlife and natural wonders. LA is characterised by its consistent climate and cheerful sunshine that draw millions of people from around the world to pursue their dreams.

The opportunity to host the 2028 Olympic Games has already catalysed LA’s community. Hundreds of partners are excited to promote the extraordinary values the Olympic Games stand for, and the values LA holds dear, including sustainability in all of its forms – social inclusion, economic benefit and environmental stewardship.

LA 2028’s vision for the Games is to create a grand partnership among the city’s stakeholders that sets the standard for sustainable mega-events everywhere, and makes that knowledge universally accessible and applicable. The guiding principle behind this vision is to “work with what exists”. LA 2028’s Games concept uses 100 percent existing and temporary venues with plans to reuse or return all temporary and overlay materials to their natural state — a revolutionary concept that will extend beyond the Games.

LA 2028 will work towards hosting the first “Energy Positive Games” by generating more energy through renewable sources and energy efficiency efforts than the energy needed to power the Games. The candidature has already commenced discussions with LA’s venue operators, regional utility partners, tech innovators and the region’s 18 million residents to meet this goal.

Finally, LA 2028 will accelerate the city’s ambitious goal of achieving zero waste through its venue operations and overlay reuse strategy. This will be accomplished by partnering with venues to develop robust recycling programmes that apply best practices from LA’s existing stadiums, including the LA Memorial Coliseum – the largest National Football League stadium to achieve zero waste.Athlete's ViewQ&amp;A with Allyson Felix, athletics

A native Angeleno, Allyson Felix is the most decorated female Olympian in track and field history, with a total of nine Olympic medals.How would the sustainable Games plan benefit the athletes of your community?

“LA 2028’s Games plan was built with sustainability as a core pillar and this will translate to significant benefits for the thousands of Olympians and community sport organisations in Southern California. LA 2028’s guiding principle is responsibility: that means to work with what already exists, and this means everything from world-class venues to LA’s robust network of over 2,000 youth sports organisations, including the LA84 Foundation. Leading up to the Games, LA 2028 will form a Youth Sports Committee to work with these existing organisations, in a joint endeavour to bolster their own programming and curricula around sport and healthy living, with unique content provided by the organising committee in collaboration with the Olympic Education Commission. After the Games, a 2028 Legacy Foundation will continue this work by distributing sports assets including swimming pools, equipment and funding.”

* Text provided by LA28Olympic Games





    
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        




	
        
Olympic Games        
        
Beijing 2022        
        
Results &amp; Medals        
        
Replays &amp; Highlights        
        
All Olympic Games        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
Olympic Channel        
        
TV Channel        
        
Live Events        
        
Original Series        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
News        
        
Podcast        
        
Topics        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
Explore        
        
Athletes        
        
Sports        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
More        
        
International Olympic Committee        
        
Museum        
        
Shop        
        
About Us        
        
Contact Centre        
        
Sitemap        
        
Careers        
	


                    

                    

                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    
                        


  

        
          
              
          
        
        
          
              
          
        

  


                        




	
        
menu-to-hide-DO-NOT-REMOVE        
        
Cookie Policy        
        
Cookie Settings        
        
Privacy Policy        
        
Terms of Service        
	


                        

  
    

            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            

    
  
                    
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            TM © Olympic Channel Services S.L. 2021 - All rights reserved
                        
                    
                
            
        
    



