



Wikipedia:Edit warring - Wikipedia



























	
	
	
	
	
	Wikipedia:Edit warring
	
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		&nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Wikipedia:EW)
		
		
		
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Wikipedia policy on editor conduct




"WP:WAR" redirects here. For similiar topics, see WP:NOTBATTLE, Wikipedia:Wikipedia is not about winning, Wikipedia:Page-move war, and Wikipedia:Wheel war.
For the technical problem when multiple editors try to edit the same page at once, see Help:Edit conflict. For reporting editors who are edit warring, see Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Edit warring.
This page documents an English Wikipedia policy.
It describes a widely accepted standard that all editors should normally follow. Changes made to it should reflect consensus.ShortcutsWP:EWWP:WARWP:EDITWAR
This page in a nutshell: Don't use edits to fight with other editors. Disagreements should be resolved through discussion.
  Wikipedia page history showing a severe edit war[1]
  Edit warring doesn't help when attempting to resolve disputes. In fact, engaging in such behavior will usually inflame the dispute, and poison the environment that Wikipedia editors all share.


An edit war occurs when editors who disagree about the content of a page repeatedly override each other's contributions. Editors engaged in a dispute should reach consensus or pursue dispute resolution rather than edit war. Edit warring is unconstructive, creates animosity between editors, makes consensus harder to reach, and causes confusion for readers. Users who engage in edit wars risk being blocked or even banned. An editor who repeatedly restores their preferred version is edit warring, regardless of whether those edits are justifiable. Claiming "My edits were right, so it wasn't edit warring" is not a valid defense.


There is a bright line known as the three-revert rule (3RR). To revert is to undo the action of another editor. The 3RR says an editor must not perform more than three reverts, in whole or in part, whether involving the same or different material, on a single page within a 24-hour period. Any appearance of gaming the system by reverting a fourth time just outside of the 24-hour slot may also be considered edit warring. There are certain exemptions to 3RR, such as reverting vandalism or clear violations of the policy on biographies of living persons; see below for details. The three-revert rule is a convenient limit for occasions when an edit war is happening fairly quickly, but it is not a definition of "edit warring", and it is perfectly possible to engage in an edit war without breaking the three-revert rule, or even coming close to doing so.

Contents

1 What edit warring is

1.1 The three-revert rule
1.2 Exemptions
1.3 Other revert rules


2 Handling of edit-warring behaviors

2.1 What to do if you see edit-warring behavior
2.2 How experienced editors avoid becoming involved in edit wars


3 Administrator guidance
4 See also
5 References
6 Further reading



What edit warring is
Conduct policies
Block evasion
Civility
Clean start
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Edit warring
Editing policy
Harassment
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Sockpuppetry
Username policy
Vandalism
vte
See also: Wikipedia:Editing policy


Wikipedia encourages editors to be bold, but while a potentially controversial change may be made to find out whether it is opposed, another editor may revert it. This may be the beginning of a bold, revert, discuss (BRD) cycle. An edit war only arises if the situation develops into a series of back-and-forth reverts. Nevertheless, not every revert or controversial edit is regarded as edit warring:

Reverting vandalism is not edit warring. However, edits from a slanted point of view, general insertion or removal of material, or other good-faith changes are not considered vandalism. See Wikipedia:Vandalism §&nbsp;Types of vandalism and Wikipedia:Vandalism §&nbsp;What is not vandalism.
Reverting to enforce certain overriding policies is not considered edit warring. For example, under the policy on biographies of living persons, where negative unsourced content is being introduced, the risk of harm is such that removal is required.
Reverting edits of banned or blocked users is not edit warring.
Reverting edits in one's own user page is rarely edit warring. Traditionally, Wikipedia offers wide latitude to users to manage their user space as they see fit. For more information, see Wikipedia:User pages §&nbsp;Ownership and editing of user pages.


When reverting, be sure to indicate your reasons. This can be done in the edit summary and/or talk page. Anti-vandalism tools such as Twinkle, Huggle and rollback should not be used to undo good-faith changes in content disputes without an appropriate edit summary.

The three-revert rule
ShortcutsWP:3RRWP:4RR




Editors who engage in edit warring are liable to be blocked from editing to prevent further disruption. While any edit warring may lead to sanctions, there is a bright-line rule called the three-revert rule (3RR), the violation of which often leads to a block.


The three-revert rule states:




An editor must not perform more than three reverts on a single page—whether involving the same or different material—within a 24-hour period. An edit or a series of consecutive edits that undoes other editors' actions—whether in whole or in part—counts as a revert. Violations of the rule often attract blocks of at least 24 hours. Fourth reverts just outside the 24-hour period may also be taken as evidence of edit-warring, especially if repeated or combined with other edit-warring behavior. See below for exemptions.




A "page" means any page on Wikipedia, including those in talk and project spaces. A "revert" means any edit (or administrative action) that reverses the actions of other editors, in whole or in part, whether involving the same or different material. A series of consecutively saved reverting edits by one user, with no intervening edits by another user, counts as one revert.


The three-revert rule applies per person, not per account; reverts made by multiple accounts operated by one editor count together. Editors violating 3RR will usually be blocked for 24 hours for a first incident.  Even without a 3RR violation, an administrator may still act if they believe a user's behavior constitutes edit warring, and any user may report edit warring with or without 3RR being breached. The rule is not an entitlement to revert a page a specific number of times.


If an editor violates 3RR by mistake, they should reverse their own most recent reversion. Administrators may take this into account and decide not to block in such cases—for example, if the user is not a habitual edit warrior and is genuinely trying to rectify their own mistake.


Edit warring and 3RR violations are not detected automatically. Either wait for an administrator to take action, or take any of the steps suggested in the §&nbsp;What to do if you see edit-warring behavior section below.

Exemptions
ShortcutsWP:3RRNOWP:NOT3RRWP:3RRBLP




The following reverts are exempt from the edit-warring policy:

Reverting your own actions ("self-reverting").
Reverting edits to pages in your own user space, so long as you are respecting the user page guidelines.
Reverting actions performed by banned users in violation of a ban, and sockpuppets or meatpuppets of banned or blocked users.
Reverting obvious vandalism—edits that any well-intentioned user would agree constitute vandalism, such as page blanking and adding offensive language.
Removal of clear copyright violations or content that unquestionably violates the non-free content policy (NFCC). What counts as exempt under NFCC can be controversial, and should be established as a violation first. Consider reporting to the Wikipedia:Files for discussion noticeboard instead of relying on this exemption.
Removal of content that is clearly illegal under U.S. law, such as child pornography and links to pirated software.
Removing contentious material that is libelous, biased, unsourced, or poorly sourced according to Wikipedia's biographies of living persons (BLP) policy. What counts as exempt under BLP can be controversial. Consider reporting to the BLP noticeboard instead of relying on this exemption.


Considerable leeway is also given to editors reverting to maintain the quality of a featured article while it appears on the Main Page.


If you are claiming an exemption, make sure there is a clearly visible edit summary or separate section of the talk page that explains the exemption. When in doubt, do not revert. Instead, follow the guidance below in §&nbsp;Handling of edit-warring behaviors.

Other revert rules
ShortcutsWP:0RRWP:1RR
"WP:0RR" and "WP:1RR" redirect here. For zero-revert rule for administrative action (no wheel-warring), see WP:0WW.


Additional restrictions on reverting may be imposed by the Arbitration Committee, by admins under Discretionary sanctions, or by the community under General sanctions. These restrictions include:

one-revert rule (1RR): The one-revert rule is analogous to the three-revert rule as described above, with the words "more than three reverts" replaced by "more than one revert". There may also be a requirement to discuss each reversion on the talk page, and sometimes the phrase "24-hour period" is replaced by some other time period, such as "one week" or "one month". The rule may be applied to either pages or editors.
zero-revert rule (0RR): The zero-revert rule means a complete prohibition on reverts (as defined for the purpose of the three-revert rule) applied to one or more editors.
An imposed rule does not apply retroactively. That is, if an editor has reverted in the past 24 hours before a 1RR has been applied, their first subsequent revert is not a violation, although editors in these instances are strongly encouraged to discuss instead of revert.


Editors of policy and guideline pages are strongly encouraged to follow 1RR or 0RR (see Wikipedia:Policies and guidelines §&nbsp;Bold). Editors may also voluntarily agree to abide by stricter reverting standards on other pages in response to problems in a particular area or as a general editing philosophy. For more details, see Wikipedia:Revert only when necessary.

Handling of edit-warring behaviors
What to do if you see edit-warring behavior
  If an edit war develops, participants should try to discuss the issue on the talk page and work things out.
See also: Wikipedia:Dispute resolution


It is better to seek help in addressing the issue than to engage in edit warring. When disagreement becomes apparent, one, both, or all participants should cease warring and discuss the issue on the associated talk page or seek help at appropriate venues. Other alternative approaches recommended within the community are suggested in §&nbsp;How experienced editors avoid becoming involved in edit wars.


If the edit warring user(s) appear unaware that edit warring is prohibited, they can be told about this policy by posting a {{uw-ew}} or {{uw-3rr}} template message on their user talk page. Avoid posting a generic warning template if you are actively involved in the edit war yourself; it can be seen as aggressive. Consider writing your own note to the user specifically appropriate for the situation, with a view to explicitly cooling things down.


If several days have passed since the last edit action, consider doing nothing—our primary objective is to stop active edit wars.


If, despite such efforts, one or more users fail to cease edit warring, refuse to work collaboratively or heed the information given to them, or do not move on to appropriate dispute resolution, then consider making a request for administrative involvement. The standard way to do this is to add a report at Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Edit warring.

How experienced editors avoid becoming involved in edit wars 
This section in a nutshell: Communication is the key to avoiding conflict. Follow Wikipedia:Editing policy §&nbsp;Talking and editing.
ShortcutWP:AVOIDEDITWAR


Once it is clear there is a dispute, avoid relying solely on edit summaries and discuss the matter on the associated talk page, which is where a reviewing administrator will look for evidence of trying to settle the dispute. It may help to remember that there is no due-date and that editors can add appropriate cleanup tags to problematic sections under current discussion. When discussion does not produce a conclusion, bringing wider attention to a dispute can lead to compromise. Consider getting a third opinion or starting a request for comment. Neutral editors aware of the dispute will help curb egregious edits while also building consensus about the dispute. If these methods fail, seek informal and formal dispute resolution.


Some experienced editors deliberately adopt a policy of only reverting edits covered by the exceptions listed above or limiting themselves to a single revert; if there is further dispute, they seek dialog or outside help rather than make the problem worse, i.e., they revert only when necessary. This policy may be particularly appropriate for controversial topics where views are polarized and emotions run high, resulting in more frequent edit warring.


The bottom line: use common sense, and do not participate in edit wars. Rather than reverting repeatedly, discuss the matter with others; if a revert is necessary, another editor may conclude the same and do it (without prompting), which would then demonstrate consensus for the action. Request page protection rather than becoming part of the dispute by reverting.

Administrator guidance


Administrators decide whether to issue a warning or block; these are intended to prevent, deter and encourage change in disruptive behavior, not to punish it. Where a block is appropriate, 24 hours is common for a first offense; administrators tend to issue longer blocks for repeated or aggravated violations, and will consider other factors, such as civility and previous blocks. Where multiple editors engage in edit wars or breach 3RR, administrators should consider all sides, since perceived unfairness can fuel issues. According to WP:Administrators, "Administrators should not normally use their tools in matters in which they are personally involved (for example, in a content dispute in which they are a party)."

See also

Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Edit warring
Wikipedia:Arguments to avoid in edit wars
Wikipedia:BOLD, revert, discuss cycle
Wikipedia:Consensus
Wikipedia:Dispute resolution
Wikipedia:Disruptive editing
Wikipedia:Etiquette
Wikipedia:Lamest edit wars
Wikipedia:Ownership of content
Wikipedia:Page-move war
Help:Reverting (how-to)
Wikipedia:Reverting (essay)
Wikipedia:Alternatives to reversion (essay)
Wikipedia:Baby and bathwater (essay)
Wikipedia:Revert only when necessary (essay)
Wikipedia:Don't shoot yourself in the foot (essay)
Wikipedia:Sock puppetry
Help:Talkspace draft
Wikipedia:Tendentious editing
References

^ "Portal:Pope/Intro: Revision history". wikipedia.org.


Further reading
Yasseri, Taha; Sumi, Robert; Rung, András; Kornai, András; Kertész, János (2012). "Dynamics of Conflicts in Wikipedia". PLOS One. 7 (6): e38869. arXiv:1202.3643. Bibcode:2012PLoSO...738869Y. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0038869. PMC&nbsp;3380063. PMID&nbsp;22745683.
vteWikipedia key policies and guidelines&nbsp;(?)
Five pillars
Ignore all rules
Content&nbsp;(?)P
Verifiability
No original research
Neutral point of view
What Wikipedia is not
Biographies of living persons
Copyright (Copyright violations)
Image use
Article titles
G
Notability
Autobiography
Citing sources
Reliable sources
Reliable sources (medicine)
Do not include copies of lengthy primary sources
Plagiarism
Don't create hoaxes
Fringe theories
Patent nonsense
External links
Conduct&nbsp;(?)P
Civility
Consensus
Harassment
Vandalism
Ignore all rules
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Edit warring
Dispute resolution
Sockpuppetry
No legal threats
Child protection
Paid-contribution disclosure
G
Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers
Courtesy vanishing
Responding to threats of harm
Talk page guidelines
Signatures
Deletion&nbsp;(?)P
Deletion policy
Proposed deletion
Biographies
Criteria for speedy deletion
Attack page
Oversight
Revision deletion
Enforcement&nbsp;(?)P
Administrators
Banning
Blocking
Page protection
Editing&nbsp;(?)P
Editing policy
G
Article size
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Broad-concept article
Understandability
Style
Manual of Style
Contents
Accessibility
Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists
Classification
Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace
Project content&nbsp;(?)G
Project namespace
WikiProjects
User pages
User boxes
Shortcuts
Subpages
WMF&nbsp;(?)P
Terms of Use
List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy

List of all policies and guidelines
P: List of policies
G: List of guidelines
Summaries of values and principles






Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Edit_warring&amp;oldid=1055995923"
		Categories: Wikipedia policiesWikipedia conduct policiesWikipedia edit warringWikipedia user conductHidden categories: Project pages with short descriptionWikipedia semi-protected project pagesWikipedia move-protected project pages
	


	



	Navigation menu
	
		
	
		
		Personal tools
	
	
		
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		
	


		
			
	
		
		Namespaces
	
	
		
		Project pageTalk
		
	


			
	
	
		
		Variants
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


		
		
			
	
		
		Views
	
	
		
		ReadView sourceView history
		
	


			
	
	
		
		More
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


			
	
			
				Search
			
		
			
				
				
				
				
			
		
	


		
	
	

	
		
	
	
	
		
		Navigation
	
	
		
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		
	


	
	
		
		Contribute
	
	
		
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		
	


	
		
		Tools
	
	
		
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
		
	


	
		
		Print/export
	
	
		
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		
	


	
		
		In other projects
	
	
		
		Wikimedia CommonsMeta-WikiWikidataWikivoyage
		
	


	
	
		
		Languages
	
	
		
		العربيةঅসমীয়াAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBosanskiCatalàDanskالدارجةDavvisámegiellaDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתქართულიKiswahiliLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംمصرىBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsРусскийShqipසිංහලSimple EnglishکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaТатарча/tatarçaతెలుగుไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việtייִדיש粵語Zazaki中文
		Edit links
	






	
	 This page was last edited on 19 November 2021, at 02:36&nbsp;(UTC).
	Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


	
	Privacy policy
	About Wikipedia
	Disclaimers
	Contact Wikipedia
	Mobile view
	Developers
	Statistics
	Cookie statement


	
	
	







