



Wikipedia:Noticeboards - Wikipedia




























	
	
	
	
	Wikipedia:Noticeboards
	
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		
		
		
		
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Wikipedia information pageThis is an information page.
It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting.ShortcutWP:PNB


Noticeboards on Wikipedia are administration pages where editors can ask questions and request assistance from people who are familiar with the policies and guidelines covered by each individual board. They are to be used for specific problems that editors encounter in writing and maintaining Wikipedia articles. Posting a message to a noticeboard can also be an appropriate early step in resolving disputes on Wikipedia. Noticeboards are best used for simple and urgent matters. If an editor needs a more complex response, and is willing to wait for it, the WP:Requests for comment process may be more suitable.


Noticeboards are not places to advocate for change to Wikipedia's existing policies. Instead, such suggestions should be taken directly to the talk page of the applicable policy or guideline. Noticeboards are also not good places to recruit more editors to work with you.  If you want to edit collaboratively, try posting a message at a relevant WP:WikiProject instead.


If you need general help with creating and editing articles on Wikipedia, try Wikipedia:Questions. New editors may find the Wikipedia:Contributing to Wikipedia page a valuable resource. If you want feedback on an article that you have planned, or that you have recently made major changes to, try the Teahouse or help desk.


If you have a question about an encyclopedic subject, leave a note for the Wikipedia:Reference desk.

Contents

1 Suggestions for success
2 Responding to requests
3 List of Wikipedia's noticeboards

3.1 Incidents for administrator attention
3.2 Bureaucrats, VRT, Arbitration
3.3 Other administrator assistance
3.4 Mergers, splits, and moves
3.5 Content dispute resolution
3.6 Copyright and spam
3.7 User and article sanctions
3.8 Other editor assistance and debates
3.9 Other support


4 See also



Suggestions for success[edit]
ShortcutWP:PNBSUCCESS 


Posting a message at a noticeboard does not guarantee a response.  Editors are more likely to respond to straightforward questions from friendly, productive editors.  If you want to increase your odds of receiving a constructive response, try this:

Messages should be concise.  Long diatribes or sprawling monologues are likely to be ignored or dismissed as "Too long, didn't read".  Provide links to the relevant articles and diffs.  Try to frame your issue as a specific, direct question:  "Can this source be used to support this statement?"  "Is this an acceptable external link for this article?"  "Do you think this editor's account should be blocked for vandalism?"  Some noticeboards have standardized formats for common requests; read and follow the directions to the best of your ability.
Be civil. Sarcasm, slurs, and snide remarks should be avoided at all costs.  If you are dealing with a heated dispute or are very frustrated, make an effort to present your question with a calm, detached, professional demeanor.  See Wikipedia's pages on civility and personal attacks for additional advice.  If the editors that respond to you disagree with you, don't argue with them — but do, if necessary, correct any factual misunderstandings or request further clarification.
Sign and date all contributions, by appending four tildes "~~~~" to the end of every message.  This simplifies page administration by allowing automatic archiving of older messages.
Watch the page.  Editors responding to your message are most likely to reply at the noticeboard.
Responding to requests[edit]


Any editor familiar with the relevant policies, guidelines, or procedures is encouraged to respond to requests on noticeboards.  Responses that are direct, informed, concrete, and specific are particularly appreciated by editors that post questions.  Some questions benefit from responses by multiple editors.  Replies are generally given at the noticeboard; if you respond on another page, it may be helpful to leave a link to your response for the convenience of other editors at the noticeboard.

List of Wikipedia's noticeboards[edit]
ShortcutWP:PNBD
See also: Category:Wikipedia noticeboards


Select the noticeboard most closely connected to the question you have.  Avoid posting the same situation to more than one noticeboard at a time.  If an issue crosses boundaries, such as a WP:BLP issue involving vandalism, then choose one or the other, and if necessary, post a very brief message at the other board to point interested editors to the first noticeboard.

Incidents for administrator attention[edit]
Further information: Wikipedia:Requests for administrator attention
Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard: coordinating and discussing tasks carried out by Wikipedia administrators.
Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Incidents: for reporting incidents requiring urgent attention by administrators.
Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Edit warring: for reporting edit warring and three-revert rule violations.
Wikipedia:Administrator intervention against vandalism: for reporting vandalism requiring immediate administrator intervention.
Bureaucrats, VRT, Arbitration[edit]
Wikipedia:Bureaucrats' noticeboard: to assist Bureaucrats on project-related activities.
Wikipedia:VRT noticeboard: Wikimedia's volunteer response team (VRT) handles copyright permissions, email inquiries from the public, reuse inquiries, article errors, and a wide range of non-public inquiries.
Wikipedia:Arbitration Committee/Noticeboard: for announcements and statements made by the Arbitration Committee.
Wikipedia talk:Arbitration Committee/Noticeboard: for discussing the aforementioned announcements and statements made by the Arbitration Committee.
Wikipedia:Arbitration/Requests: request Arbcom cases, clarification and amendment.
Wikipedia:Arbitration/Requests/Enforcement: request administrator enforcement of Arbcom decisions.
Other administrator assistance[edit]
Wikipedia:Closure requests: is for posting requests to have an uninvolved editor assess, summarize, and formally close a discussion on Wikipedia.
Wikipedia:Requests for oversight: suppress edits that breach somebody's privacy, or defame somebody.
Wikipedia:Requests for page protection: for requesting that a page, file or template be protected.
Wikipedia:Sockpuppet investigations: for requesting for an investigation on whether two or more Wikipedia accounts are being abusively operated by the same person.
Wikipedia:Requests for permissions: for requesting changes in user access levels
Wikipedia:WikiProject on open proxies seeks to identify, verify and block open proxies and anonymity network exit nodes.
Wikipedia:Usernames for administrator attention: for usernames that are such blatant and serious problems that they need to be immediately blocked.
MediaWiki talk:Titleblacklist: title and user name blacklist requests.
Mergers, splits, and moves[edit]
Wikipedia:Proposed article mergers: lists proposals merge articles
Wikipedia:Proposed article splits: lists proposals to split articles
Wikipedia:Requested moves: for requesting the retitling (moving) of an article, template, or project page on Wikipedia (but not a category)
Wikipedia:Requests for history merge: proposals for mergers of page edit-histories
Wikipedia:Requests for page importation: requests that pages be imported with edit-history from other Wikimedia Foundation wikis to English Wikipedia
Content dispute resolution[edit]
Further information: Wikipedia:Dispute resolution §&nbsp;Resolving content disputes with outside help
Wikipedia:Editor assistance/Requests: an informal method of requesting help from an experienced editor.
Wikipedia:Requests for comment/All: an informal process for requesting outside input concerning disputes, policies, guidelines, article content, or user conduct.
Wikipedia:Third opinion: Third opinion (3O) is a means to request an outside opinion in a content or sourcing disagreement between two editors.
Wikipedia:Dispute resolution noticeboard: to help resolve general disputes between editors.
Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons/Noticeboard: about maintaining Wikipedia's high standards for statements about living people in any kind of article.
Wikipedia:Conflict of interest/Noticeboard: about WP:Conflicts of interest.
Wikipedia:External links/Noticeboard: about selection and location of WP:External links (links not used to verify article content).
Wikipedia:Fringe theories/Noticeboard: about WP:Fringe theories.
Wikipedia:Neutral point of view/Noticeboard: about achieving and maintaining a neutral point of view in articles.
Wikipedia:No original research/Noticeboard: about synthesis and other kinds of WP:Original research.
Wikipedia:Reliable sources/Noticeboard: about identifying and correctly using reliable sources to verify article content
Copyright and spam[edit]
Further information: Wikipedia:Copyright assistance
Wikipedia:Contributor copyright investigations: to identify users who have repeatedly introduced copyright violations.
Wikipedia:Copyright problems: for listing and discussing possible copyright problems involving text on Wikipedia.
Wikipedia:Media copyright questions: a place for help with image copyrights, tagging, non-free content, and related questions.
Wikipedia:Files for discussion: for reviewing compliance with non-free content criteria for media.
Wikipedia talk:WikiProject Spam: for reports of spam.
MediaWiki talk:Spam-blacklist: spam blacklist requests.
MediaWiki talk:Spam-whitelist: spam whitelist requests.
User and article sanctions[edit]
Wikipedia:General sanctions: sanctions for editing certain articles inappropriately.
Wikipedia:Editing restrictions: restrictions on particular users' behavior.
Wikipedia:Long-term abuse: summarises a limited number of long term abusers.
Other editor assistance and debates[edit]
Wikipedia:Teahouse: a friendly place to help new editors become accustomed to Wikipedia.
Wikipedia:Help desk: for questions about how to use or edit Wikipedia.
Wikipedia talk:Manual of Style: for questions about Wikipedia writing style (tone, spelling, punctuation, abbreviations, layout, images, linking, etc.)
Wikipedia:Education noticeboard: discussions relating to student assignments and the Wikipedia Education Program.
Wikipedia:WikiProject Articles for creation/Help desk: for questions about article submissions to Wikipedia.
Wikipedia:WikiProject Resource Exchange/Resource Request: requests for sharing the vast resources available to Wikipedians.
Wikipedia:Village pump: a set of pages is used to discuss the technical issues, policies and operations of Wikipedia.
Wikipedia:Village pump (idea lab): to discuss ideas and solutions to issues before proposing them to the community.
Wikipedia:Village pump (policy): to discuss existing and proposed policies.
Wikipedia:Village pump (proposals): to discuss new proposals that are not policy-related.
Wikipedia:Village pump (technical): to discuss technical issues.
Wikipedia:Village pump (miscellaneous): for messages that do not fit into any of the other categories.
Wikipedia:Discussions for discussion: for discussion closers to discuss their evaluation of consensus in preparation for closing specific discussions.
Other support[edit]
Wikipedia:Bot owners' noticeboard: a message board for coordinating and discussing bot-related issues on Wikipedia (also including other programs interacting with the MediaWiki software).
Wikipedia:Edit filter noticeboard: for coordination and discussion of edit filter use and management.
Wikipedia:Main Page/Errors: to report an error you have noticed on today's or tomorrow's Main Page.
See also[edit]


Help portal
For ongoing discussions and current requests, see Wikipedia:Dashboard.
Wikipedia:Village pump
Wikipedia:Negotiation
Wikipedia:Mediation
Wikipedia:Requests
Wikipedia:List of WikiProjects
Wikipedia:Regional notice boards
vteNoticeboardsWikipedia's centralized discussion, request, and help venues. For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the dashboard.General
Administrators
main
incidents
Bots
Bureaucrats
Centralized discussion
Closure requests
Education
Interface admins
Main Page errors
Open proxies
VRT
Oversight
User permissions
Articles and content
Biographies of living persons
Copyrights
questions on media
problems
Dispute resolution
External links
Fringe theories
Neutral point of view
Original research
Reliable sources
Resource requests
Spam
blacklist
whitelist
Scalable vector graphics
Titleblacklist
Translation
Page handling
History merges
Mergers
Splits
Moves
Protection
Importation
XfD
Articles
Redirects
Categories
Templates
Files
Miscellany
Undeletion
User conduct
Conflict of interest
Contributor copyright
Edit warring and 3RR
Sanctions
Personal restrictions
General sanctions
Discretionary sanctions
Sockpuppets
Usernames
Vandalism
Other
Arbitration
Committee noticeboard
requests
enforcement
Edit filters
requested
false positives
Questions
Help desk
Teahouse
Reference desk
New articles
Requests for comment
Village pump
policy
technical
proposals
idea lab
WMF
miscellaneous
WikiProject proposals
 Category:Wikipedia noticeboards
vteWikipedia directories and indexesAdministration
pagesProtocols
Policies
Guidelines
Manual of Style
Assistance
Help directory
Menu
FAQs
Interactive help
Reader's index
Tips
Styletips
Tools
The community
Portal
Discussions
Noticeboards
Essays
Editor's index
Departments
Maintenance
WikiProjects
MediaWiki
Wikicode
HTML
Templates
Locutions
Abbreviations
Edit summaries
Glossary
Readers
Shortcuts
Encyclopedia
 properTypes
Overviews
Outlines
Lists
Portals
Glossaries
Categories
Indices
Featured, good
Featured articles
Good articles
Featured lists
Featured pictures
Featured topics
Good topics
Topics
Current events
Reference
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Math
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology
LOC, bios, times
Academic disciplines
Anniversaries
Today
Countries and territories
Deaths this year
Timelines
Centuries
Decades
Indexes
A–Z index
Categories
Dewey Decimal classes
Library of Congress Classification
Spoken articles

vteWikipedia accounts and governanceUnregistered (IP) users
Why create an account?
Create an account
Request an account
IPs are human too
IP addresses are not people
IP hopper
Registered users
New account
Logging in
Reset passwords
Username policy
Changing username
Usernames for administrator attention
Unified login or SUL
Alternate account
Account security
Password strength requirements
User account security
Personal security practices
Two-factor authentication
2FA for AWB
Committed identity
On privacy, confidentiality and discretion
Compromised accounts
Blocks, bans, sanctions,
global actions
Blocking policy
FAQ
Admins guide
Tools
Autoblock
Appealing a block
Guide to appealing blocks
UTRS Unblock Ticket Request System
Blocking IP addresses
Range blocks
IPv6
Open proxies
Banning policy
ArbCom appeals
Sanctions
Personal sanctions
General sanctions
Discretionary sanctions and Log
Essay
Long-term abuse
Standard offer
Global actions
Related to accounts
Sockpuppetry
Single-purpose account
Sleeper account
Vandalism-only account
Wikibreak
Enforcer
Retiring
Courtesy vanishing
Clean start
Quiet return
User groups
 and global user groups
Requests for permissions
Admin instructions
Admin guide
Account creator
PERM
(Auto) confirmed
PERM
Autopatrolled
PERM
AutoWikiBrowser
PERM
Bot
Request
Edit filter helper
Request
Event coordinator
PERM
Extended confirmed
PERM
File mover
PERM
IP block exempt
Request
Mass message sender
PERM
New page reviewer
PERM
Page mover
PERM
Pending changes reviewer
PERM
Rollback
PERM
Template editor
PERM
Global rights policy
OTRS Volunteer Response Team
Advanced user groups
Administrator
RfA
Bureaucrat
RfB
CheckUser and Oversight
Request
Edit filter manager
Request
Interface administrator
Request
Founder
Importer
Researcher
Committees and related
Arbitration Committee
Bot approvals group
Functionaries
Clerks
SPI clerks
ArbCom clerks
Governance
Administration
FAQ
Formal organization
Editorial oversight and control
Quality control
Wikimedia Foundation
Board
Founder's seat
Meta-Wiki
Proposals
WikiProjects
Elections
Policies and guidelines
Petitions
Noticeboards
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Reforms






Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Noticeboards&amp;oldid=1048564330"
		Categories: Wikipedia information pagesWikipedia directoriesWikipedia noticeboardsHidden categories: Project pages with short description
	


	



	Navigation menu
	
		
	
		
		Personal tools
	
	
		
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		
	


		
			
	
		
		Namespaces
	
	
		
		Project pageTalk
		
	


			
	
	
		
		Variants
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


		
		
			
	
		
		Views
	
	
		
		ReadEditView history
		
	


			
	
	
		
		More
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


			
	
			
				Search
			
		
			
				
				
				
				
			
		
	


		
	
	

	
		
	
	
	
		
		Navigation
	
	
		
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		
	


	
	
		
		Contribute
	
	
		
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		
	


	
		
		Tools
	
	
		
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
		
	


	
		
		Print/export
	
	
		
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		
	


	
	
		
		Languages
	
	
		
		العربيةभोजपुरीBahasa IndonesiaMagyarPortuguêsසිංහල中文
		Edit links
	






	
	 This page was last edited on 6 October 2021, at 17:59&nbsp;(UTC).
	Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


	
	Privacy policy
	About Wikipedia
	Disclaimers
	Contact Wikipedia
	Mobile view
	Developers
	Statistics
	Cookie statement


	
	
	







