



Wikipedia:WikiProject Editor Retention - Wikipedia




























	
	
	
	
	Wikipedia:WikiProject Editor Retention
	
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		
		
		
		
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		"WP:RETENTION" and "WP:WPER" redirect here. For the page about retaining subject-matter experts in particular, see WP:Expert retention. For WikiProject Edit requests, see WP:WikiProject Edit requests. For WikiProject Elections and Referendums, see WP:WPE&amp;R.

Main pageEditor of the WeekMembersTemplatesTalk page
Don't hesitate: Visit the Editor of the Week nominations page and nominate someone today!
This is a WikiProject, an area for focused collaboration among Wikipedians. New participants are welcome; please feel free to participate!

Guide to WikiProjects
Directory of WikiProjects  ShortcutsWP:WERWP:RETENTION
 

WP:RETENTION: These editors are  willing to lend a helping hand. Just ask!







WikiProject Editor Retention aims to retain Wikipedians. Editors are as important as content. Without editors, there are no contributions. Without contributions, the encyclopedia grows stagnant. Editor retention is the concern and proactive effort of retaining contributors.


We aim to do the following: discuss patterns of behavior or processes that discourage editors, guide editors to optimal venues for having their questions answered or disputes resolved, and create projects to provide support and recognize editors. Policies are not decided here, but are discussed, hoping to find solutions that are specifically geared toward retaining editors. Since some of the topics are controversial and contentious, we ask that editors strive for civility in their participation in discussions and projects here.

(edit this section)






Interested? Add your name to the member list.






Editing Goals
Overview
Project Goals
Discussions &amp; Links 








Editing Goals

Stay calm and maintain a professional demeanor. Patience is key.
Avoid conflict, even when you know you are right. Give other editors the benefit of the doubt.
Assume good faith toward your collaborating editors, if not their edits. Assuming good faith is not intended to be self-destructive, but to avoid conflict.
Ignore attacks. Not easily done, but a real timesaver. Attacks and counter-attacks are hazardous to your mental health. The best and most frequently offered administrative advice is to move on, and, if absolutely necessary, return the next day.
Don't take it personally. Editors make mistakes. Communicating our thoughts is not easily done on the Internet.
Don't isolate your interpretation. There are many interpretations other than yours. What you read might NOT be what was meant.
Don't think of editing as a competition. WE are cohorts, collaborating to improve our thing.
Don't edit when angry or upset. Stay off the article and talk page in question. Never let your anger or frustration be the deciding factor in your behavior.
Don't forget the human dimension of Wikipedia editing. Keep things in perspective. There is a real, living and breathing, sensitive human on the other side of the discussion.
(edit this section)















"It's A Jungle!"


Sennecaster


&nbsp;


Editor of the Week 
for the week beginning November 21, 2021


The work of copyright cleanup maintains Wikipedia status as a reliable source for neutral information. Sennecaster, although a newer editor, has already become a determined and excellent CCI clerk, inspecting articles, and is part of the renaissance at CCI. She also contributes at WP:3O and has been a capable spokesperson for the faction of editors engaging in cleaning up copyright violations.



Recognized for


copyright cleanup




Submit a nomination





Overview


Editor retention is a Wikipedia-wide problem. This WikiProject aims to build a stronger Wikipedia for the future, a Wikipedia in which editors want to work and participate, rather than pointing fingers or making accusations at one another. Pointing out the positive actions of administrators and others is encouraged, as we believe the best way to lead is by example. We want to point out what is RIGHT about Wikipedia, encourage others to use those methods, and establish new methods and ideas that make editing Wikipedia enjoyable, fulfilling, and rewarding for everyone.


Spreading awareness

Editors can display one of these userboxes to promote the project and let editors know your interest.
Welcome new users from the Special:Log/newusers list with our welcome template: {{subst:WikiProject Editor Retention/Welcome}} or one of the standardised templates found at Wikipedia:Welcoming committee/Welcome templates. Another available option for finding new editors is "Recent changes" in the drop-down menu (under the WikiGlobe to our left) under "Interaction". Scan for red linked talk pages of new editors that have already started their Wikipedia career.


Supporting editors

Sign up as a Teahouse host, and participate in one or more of the following activities:
answer questions on the Teahouse Q&amp;A board
send templated invitations to new editors listed on the Teahouse invitee report (it's refreshed daily!) Don't be shy about emailing people too; email + talk page invite works better than a template alone. And personalizing the invitation with an introduction or a "good job with your edits to the article FOO" is likely to have an even more positive impact. Currently, most of these editors are not being invited to the Teahouse.
post a welcoming message on the talk pages of editors who have recently introduced themselves on the Teahouse guests page. Currently, most of these are not being welcomed, even after they introduce themselves.
Sign up as a volunteer at the Wikipedia:Dispute resolution noticeboard, a venue where small content disputes can be resolved as well as a gateway to other more consequential venues. Be involved with the Dispute resolution process. Early mediation of problems prevents blocks and protracted edit wars which disrupt Wikipedia and helps keep things civil.
Wikipedia:BOLD, revert, discuss cycle is an optional method of reaching consensus. Our edits can and will be changed by others&nbsp;...even this one. Interact with editors in a manner that encourages editing and improving the encyclopedia while using your experience and knowledge to teach and lead by example.
Cool down aggressive conversation if it begins in your presence. Be an advocate of collaboration. Of course, the challenge is not to become adversarial yourself. If a situation occurs and you feel administrative intervention is required, editors can create a post on a number of noticeboards such as Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Incidents. You can discuss issues that affect administrators at Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard (however, most editors are expected to make some attempt to work it out themselves before going there, and without evidence of this attempt, most such postings will be rejected before they are given full administrative consideration).


Recognizing editors

Spread some Wikilove. Try to acknowledge and thank someone different for their contributions, each and every day:  Give a barnstar, "cookies" or bacon as appreciation, or send them Thanks for an edit they made.


Working within the project

Keep an eye out for Nominees to be the WER Editor of the Week...and then nominate them.
(edit this section)




Project Goals


A part of increasing retention of editors at Wikipedia is to encourage new editors to continue editing in a positive and constructive manner.  We therefore encourage you to:

Greet and help new editors: stop and help them when you know they may be stuck, misguided, incorrect or just stumbling, but continue to encourage interaction if/ when you get a less than thankful response
Advise and encourage new editors to learn how to be a Wikipedia editor before they are discouraged by some early pitfall
Patrol Special:Log/newusers to identify newer users who already have made contributions and put a Welcome Template on their talk page along with s a personal note telling them to feel free to contact you if they have a question
Scan "Recent changes" searching for either new editors to welcome or situations to which you feel you can contribute from a "retention viewpoint"; soften the blow of speedy deletions, etc.


Even experienced editors can get discouraged, and we should always consider ways to retain those who have been here awhile. Many editors become semi-retired or just stop editing without declaring so for various reasons, some of them more obvious than others.  With regard to them, our project goals are to:

Establish methods for use to prevent editor loss, such as promotion of the project and its suggestions
Encourage departed editors to return. Even many retired editors will watch their user talkpage for passing comments, so consider leaving an encouraging, personally written comment and suggest an edit they might be interested in making
Promote a more positive environment in which editors will want to participate
Review Wikipedia:WikiProject_Editor_Retention/FA_editors_list to find Featured Article (WP:FA) contributors who appear to have stopped contributing recently-- perhaps by contacting them you can encourage them to return to editing. WP:Good will lead you to Good Article (GA) contributors.
Document ways in which all editors can achieve these goals and organize them within the project's subpages
Sign up and participate with the various Help Projects located through Wikipedia:Help Project. This project is undergoing substantial reorganizing to make it easier for editors to find the appropriate help,[when?] especially in high traffic areas where applicable, such as WikiProject Directory. Feel free to contribute to that project.









Reasons editors leave



Contents

1 Reasons editors leave
2 Things causing damage to the editorial climate
3 General research process ('Incubation')
4 Resources
5 External links



Reasons editors leave[edit]


Not all reasons that editors leave can be "fixed", as many simply move onto other interests or have lifestyle changes that limit their participation.  This list focuses on the reasons that can be addressed at Wikipedia. These problems, in no particular order, are within the scope of this project. Feel free to modify.

Negative behavior of other editors
Interaction with biased, reckless editors with POV issues
Ownership of articles by one or more editors
Uninformed but relentless 'Randy in Boise'-type editing, with WP:OWN regularly cited to justify it, leaving editors to watch their work deteriorate
Civil point of view promotion
Tendentious editing. For articles that lack a significant following, it is difficult to find enough editors (particularly in a way that avoids accusations of canvassing) to establish a consensus. If a problematic editor does not respond to reasoned argument, time can be wasted trying to build a greater understanding but with no net result. Tendentious editors can ignore Wikipedia's bold, revert, discuss cycle and re-introduce their problematic edits; in cases where they are not amenable to dispute resolution mechanisms, there is no clear way to resolve the content dispute, and their edits become fixed in place.
Sockpuppeting causing insurmountable obstacles to editing enjoyment
Edit warring from other editors
Personal attacks, accusations, incivility, and wikihounding, with the targets often discouraged from speaking out in case they are blamed
Outing of personal, off-site information
Perceptions of an anti-social atmosphere within a clique
Regular templating of user talk pages
Negative pressures from the wider community
Deletion, threatened deletion, and the ubiquitous tagging of articles ("nag tags")
Frustration caused by the plethora of policies and guidelines
Poor dispute-resolution processes
Too many editors who focus on dispute-resolution discussions (AN/I, RfC, RfAr), as opposed to content creation; their involvement can cause requests for dispute resolution to become bogged-down and protracted
Experience of peer review processes as confrontational and hierarchical rather than collaborative
Claims that long-term editors are "vested contributors" in a negative sense, which suggests that the project has no respect for experienced volunteers
Lack of a supportive community
Creating an account only results in negative feedback, easier to edit without an account
Pressures related to admins or admin actions
Frustration caused by bad blocks, threats of blocks, or other administrative actions, particularly against long-term editors
Regular attacks on administrators both as individuals and as a group, leaving them unwilling to deal with anything contentious, which in turn leaves editors to cope with disruption without support
Permanence and indelibility of the block record. Admins make bad blocks. Once an editor has a block record s/he is obliged to sport it in perpetuity. Blocks do not expire from the record, and they cannot be removed from it.
Entropy
Failure to defend high-quality work, leaving it to deteriorate over time
Difficulty attracting or retaining expertise
Experienced editors leave because others do, leading to a deterioration in the quality of discourse, which in turn dissuades potentially serious editors from joining.
Personal feelings
Boredom
Exhaustion of patience
Lack of recognition of contributions, or negative feedback for time spent editing in good faith
Attempts to fight an addiction to editing
Wider perceptions
Perception that Wikipedia has been used for political or monetary gain (e.g. the SOPA initiative, Russian trolls, and the paid editing/advocacy/COI debates)
Perception that the Wikimedia Foundation focuses more on bringing in new editors, than on finding ways to encourage experienced editors
Perception that involvement in Wikipedia is pointless: a bottomless pit
Frustration that poor BLP editing continues to cause problems for living people


More data on this issue is available from the Former Contributors Survey Results.


Some information can be gleaned by looking in the retired editors list at the final edit summaries retired users left






Damage to the editorial climate



Things causing damage to the editorial climate[edit]
Tags that are more BITEY than necessary.
See Wikipedia talk:First contact#un-intentionally biting a New Editor for an example.
Having a generally constant but limiting "We are Adversaries" mindset rather than a habitual far-reaching "We are Collaborators" mindset.
One is a closing. The other, an opening.
Choosing words that degrade or attack the other editor or his edits vs. taking the time to realize the fragile nature of the novice editor.
Forgetting that conversation is the natural way that humans think when they are together and that, at times, it can get messy.
Sarcasm.
Sarcasm rarely works in real life. It is certainly out of place here. It leads to confusion, hurtfulness and trouble, even when tagged as sarcasm. It is an aggressive, dishonest form of communication.
Alienation through use of aggressive idiolects or slang.
Highly personalized or slangy writing styles are fine for friendly chats but not when debating serious issues with other editors, for whom such productions, which are not even amenable to machine translation, may turn out to be effectively more obscure than a different language.
The interplay between (1) our affirmative and prompt deletion of certain types of articles (copyvio, unref BLP, attack, etc.) and (2) the complete lack of guidance to new article creators of those critical requirements before or during the article creation process.
The combination of these two factors is the moral equivalent of a 20-foot pit lined with punji sticks. We can cover the punji stakes, but the problems remains; the pit, the lack of warning signage, and the stakes themselves. Please read Attractive nuisance doctrine. Suggestion; Since we are unlikely to give up the punji sticks (the copyvio deletions, etc), we put up a "sign"  i.e., give new editors instructions in our policies before they create an article.
Most times the new editor is concerned only with the article. But, the experienced editor is more concerned with the encyclopedia.
The new user holds the article and his edits and his word choices as precious and can't bear to see them changed. They have great pride in their work and saving it becomes a mission. They need to be reminded that editing is not just a matter of deciding what to include. It's more a matter of what NOT to include. Because they misunderstand this fact, they see experienced editors as having a "cruel hand".
Not enough praise for a new editor's hard work. Sorry to say but some veteran editors think new editors are clueless noobs with a burr under their saddles.
Everyone likes to be appreciated. When the new editor feels attacked instead, sparks start to fly and somebody gets burned (usually the new editor).



Project Tasks








Here are some tasks awaiting attention: 
  Article requests :                           Start a project "style guide"Cleanup :                                                Check all lists and bullet points for stale proposals, pages, etc.Infobox :                            Create a Project InfoboxMaintain :                                          Maintenance of the Discussions section. Update listed discussion and archive stale discussions.Map :                                               Create an Index.Merge :                                                  Merge relevant content.Photo :                                         Create an Image Gallery
 


(edit this section)




Discussions &amp; Links


Initiatives

Create an easy-to-understand essay for requesting unblocks
Reward established editors that might not be noticed otherwise via Wikipedia's Editor of the Week


Current working groups

Editor Retention Pact
Retain new editors
An essay on guidance for younger editors by User:Newyorkbrad
Retention and return team


Other areas of the project

Retired editors list
Retired editors questionnaire
The care and handling of New Editors


Why do editors leave?

Wikipedia:Why is Wikipedia losing contributors - Thinking about remedies
Discovered reasons given for leaving Wikipedia


Identifying editors who have left, or who are at risk of leaving

FA editors list
Retired editors list









Discussion


Main Talkpage discussion


Current discussions

Current discussions
General discussion
List of current sub-discussions
Administrator retention
Comments by editors as they retire
Reasons editors leave
Wikipedia:First contact Essay


Peripheral links suggested by editors


The directory of Wikimedia research projects
Editor engagement
Editor Trends Study
Employee retention – A similar concept
Findings from the Wikimedia Summer of Research
Former Contributors Survey Results
Imagine others complexly
Modelling Wikipedia's growth
The MoodBar
Morbidity and mortality conference
Nine Reasons Why Women Don't Edit Wikipedia by Sue Gardner, Executive Director, Wikimedia Foundation
Snuggle, a browser-based newcomer observation and support system.
The Teahouse
Reading lounge for editors who want to take a break and read through some interesting links
Wikimedia Foundation Growth Project
Wikipedia founder worries about future of editorial community
WikiStats 2 - English Wikipedia, the WMF engagement metrics.


(edit this section)

General research process ('Incubation')[edit]
Planning: Defining goals and methods
Action: Implementing the plan
Tracking: Quantitatively determining degree of success
Resources[edit]
Wikipedia Statistics
meta:Research:Teahouse - WMF funded research on reasons new users depart. The references are particularly valuable.
External links[edit]
Playing for keeps: Recruiting and retaining volunteer staff in volunteer-run organizations
Attracting and Retaining Volunteers - Philantrophic Giving Resources
Recruiting and managing volunteers — Knowhow Nonprofit
This is a WikiProject, an area for focused collaboration among Wikipedians. New participants are welcome; please feel free to participate!

Guide to WikiProjects
Directory of WikiProjects  
vte&nbsp;WikiProject Council&nbsp;WikiProject guides
WikiProject Council
Talk
Guidelines/Intro
WikiProjects
Task forces
Technical notes
Assessment FAQ
Work via WikiProjects
&nbsp;Directories and summaries
Directory
Proposals
Signpost
Shortcuts
Popular pages
Database reports
Watchers
&nbsp;Culture and the arts
Arts
Music
Performing
Plastic
Visual
Broadcasting
Crafts and hobbies
Entertainment
Games and toys
Food and drink
Internet culture
Language and literature
Biography
Linguistics
Media
Philosophy and religion
Sports
&nbsp;Geographical
Bodies of water
Cities
Countries
Africa
Americas
Asia
Europe
Oceania
Landforms
Maps
Parks, conservation areas and historical sites
&nbsp;History and society
History and society
Business and economics
Education
Military and warfare
Politics and government
Transportation
&nbsp;Science, technology
and engineering
Science
Biology
Chemistry
Economics
Geosciences
Information science
Mathematics
Medicine
Meteorology
Physics
Space
Technology
Time
&nbsp;Wikipedia assistance
and tasks
Contents systems
Maintenance
Files
Article improvement and grading
Classroom projects
WikiProjects

vteWikipedia key policies and guidelines&nbsp;(?)
Five pillars
Ignore all rules
Content&nbsp;(?)P
Verifiability
No original research
Neutral point of view
What Wikipedia is not
Biographies of living persons
Copyright (Copyright violations)
Image use
Article titles
G
Notability
Autobiography
Citing sources
Reliable sources
Reliable sources (medicine)
Do not include copies of lengthy primary sources
Plagiarism
Don't create hoaxes
Fringe theories
Patent nonsense
External links
Conduct&nbsp;(?)P
Civility
Consensus
Harassment
Vandalism
Ignore all rules
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Edit warring
Dispute resolution
Sockpuppetry
No legal threats
Child protection
Paid-contribution disclosure
G
Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers
Courtesy vanishing
Responding to threats of harm
Talk page guidelines
Signatures
Deletion&nbsp;(?)P
Deletion policy
Proposed deletion
Biographies
Criteria for speedy deletion
Attack page
Oversight
Revision deletion
Enforcement&nbsp;(?)P
Administrators
Banning
Blocking
Page protection
Editing&nbsp;(?)P
Editing policy
G
Article size
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Broad-concept article
Understandability
Style
Manual of Style
Contents
Accessibility
Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists
Classification
Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace
Project content&nbsp;(?)G
Project namespace
WikiProjects
User pages
User boxes
Shortcuts
Subpages
WMF&nbsp;(?)P
Terms of Use
List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy

List of all policies and guidelines
P: List of policies
G: List of guidelines
Summaries of values and principles

vteWikipedia essaysEssays on building, editing, and deleting contentPhilosophy
Articles must be written
All Five Pillars are the same height
Avoid vague introductions
Be a reliable source
Civil POV pushing
Cohesion
Competence is required
Concede lost arguments
Dissent is not disloyalty
Don't lie
Don't search for objections
Editing Wikipedia is like visiting a foreign country
Editors will sometimes be wrong
Eight simple rules for editing our encyclopedia
Explanationism
External criticism of Wikipedia
Here to build an encyclopedia
Levels of competence
Most ideas are bad
Need
Neutrality of sources
Not editing because of Wikipedia restriction
The one question
Oversimplification
Paradoxes
Paraphrasing
POV and OR from editors, sources, and fields
Process is important
Product, process, policy
Purpose
Reasonability rule
Systemic bias
There is no seniority
Ten Simple Rules for Editing Wikipedia
Tendentious editing
The role of policies in collaborative anarchy
The rules are principles
Trifecta
Wikipedia in brief
Wikipedia is an encyclopedia
Wikipedia is a community
Article construction
100K featured articles
Acronym overkill
Advanced source searching
Adding images improves the encyclopedia
Advanced article editing
Advanced table formatting
Advanced template coding
Advanced text formatting
Alternatives to the "Expand" template
Amnesia test
A navbox on every page
An unfinished house is a real problem
Articles have a half-life
Autosizing images
Avoid mission statements
Bare URLs
Be neutral in form
Beef up that first revision
Blind men and an elephant
BOLD, revert, discuss cycle
Build content to endure
Cherrypicking
Chesterton's fence
Children's lit, adult new readers, &amp; large-print books
Citation overkill
Citation underkill
Common-style fallacy
Concept cloud
Creating controversial content
Criticisms of society may be consistent with NPOV and reliability
Deprecated sources
Dictionaries as sources
Don't demolish the house while it's still being built
Don't get hung up on minor details
Don't hope the house will build itself
Don't panic
Don't revert due solely to "no consensus"
Don't teach the controversy
Editing on mobile devices
Editors are not mindreaders
Encourage the newcomers
Endorsements (commercial)
Featured articles may have problems
Fruit of the poisonous tree
Give an article a chance
Identifying and using independent sources
History sources
Law sources
Primary sources
Science sources
Style guides
Tertiary sources
Ignore STRONGNAT for date formats
Inaccuracies in Wikipedia namespace
Inaccuracy
Introduction to structurism
Link rot
Mine a source
Merge Test
Minors and persons judged incompetent
"Murder of" articles
Not every story/event/disaster needs a biography
Not everything needs a navbox
Not everything needs a WikiProject
Nothing is in stone
Organizing disambiguation pages by subject area
Permastub
Potential, not just current state
Presentism
Principle of Some Astonishment
Printability
Pruning article revisions
Publicists
Put a little effort into it
Restoring part of a reverted edit
Robotic editing
Sham consensus
Specialized-style fallacy
Stub Makers
Run an edit-a-thon
Temporary versions of articles
Tertiary-source fallacy
There is a deadline
There is no deadline
The deadline is now
Understanding Wikipedia's content standards
Walled garden
What an article should not include
Wikipedia is a work in progress
Wikipedia is not a reliable source
Wikipedia is not being written in an organized fashion
The world will not end tomorrow
Write the article first
Writing better articles
Writing article content
Avoid thread mode
Gender-neutral language
Proseline
Use feminine pronouns
Write the article first
Writing about women
Writing better articles
Removing or
 deleting content
Adjectives in your recommendations
AfD is not a war zone
Arguments to avoid in deletion discussions
Arguments to avoid in deletion reviews
Arguments to avoid in image deletion discussions
Arguments to make in deletion discussions
Avoid repeated arguments
Before commenting in a deletion discussion
But there must be sources!
Confusing arguments mean nothing
Content removal
Counting and sorting are not original research
Delete the junk
Does deletion help?
Don't attack the nominator
Don't confuse stub status with non-notability
Don't overuse shortcuts to policy and guidelines to win your argument
Follow the leader
How to save an article proposed for deletion
I just don't like it
Identifying blatant advertising
Identifying test edits
Immunity
Keep it concise
Liar liar pants on fire
Nothing
Nothing is clear
Overzealous deletion
Relisting can be abusive
Relist bias
The Heymann Standard
Unopposed AFD discussion
Wikipedia is not Whack-A-Mole
Why was the page I created deleted?
What to do if your article gets tagged for speedy deletion
When in doubt, hide it in the woodwork
No Encyclopedic Use
Essays on civilityThe basics
Accepting other users
Apology
Contributing to complicated discussions
Divisiveness
Edit at your own pace
Encouraging the newcomers
Enjoy yourself
Expect no thanks
High-functioning autism and Asperger's editors
How to be civil
Maintaining a friendly space
Negotiation
Obsessive–compulsive disorder editors
Relationships with academic editors
Thank you
Too long; didn't read
Truce
Unblock perspectives
We are all Wikipedians here
Philosophy
A weak personal attack is still wrong
Advice for hotheads
An uncivil environment is a poor environment
Be the glue
Beware of the tigers!
Civility warnings
Deletion as revenge
Failure
Forgive and forget
It's not the end of the world
Nobody cares
Most people who disagree with you on content are not vandals
Old-fashioned Wikipedian values
Profanity, civility, and discussions
Revert notification opt-out
Shadowless Fists of Death!
Staying cool when the editing gets hot
The grey zone
The last word
There is no Divine Right Of Editors
Most ideas are bad
Nothing is clear
The rules of polite discourse
There is no common sense
Two wrongs don't make a right
Wikipedia is not about winning
Writing for the opponent
Reader
Dos
Argue better
Assume good faith
Assume the assumption of good faith
Assume no clue
Avoid personal remarks
Avoid the word "vandal"
Be excellent to one another
Beyond civility
Call a spade a spade
Candor
Deny recognition
Desist
Discussing cruft
Drop the stick and back slowly away from the horse carcass
Encourage full discussions
Get over it
How to lose
Imagine others complexly
Just drop it
Keep it down to earth
Mind your own business
Say "MOBY"
Read before commenting
Settle the process first
Don'ts
ALPHABETTISPAGHETTI
Civil POV pushing
Cyberbullying
Don't accuse someone of a personal attack for accusing of a personal attack
Don't be a fanatic
Don't be a jerk
Don't be an ostrich
Don't be ashamed
Don't be a WikiBigot
Don't be high-maintenance
Don't be inconsiderate
Don't be obnoxious
Don't be prejudiced
Don't be rude
Don't be the Fun Police
Don't bludgeon the process
Don't call a spade a spade
Don't call the kettle black
Don't call things cruft
Don't come down like a ton of bricks
Don't cry COI
Don't demand that editors solve the problems they identify
Don't drink the consensus Kool-Aid
Don't eat the troll's food
Don't fight fire with fire
Don't give a fuck
Don't help too much
Don't make a smarmy valediction part of your signature
Don't remind others of past misdeeds
Don't shout
Don't spite your face
Don't take the bait
Don't template the regulars
Don't throw your toys out of the pram
Do not insult the vandals
Griefing
Nationalist editing
No angry mastodons
just madmen
No Nazis
No, you can't have a pony
Passive aggression
Please don't bite the newcomers
POV railroad
There are no oracles
You can't squeeze blood from a turnip
WikiRelations
WikiBullying
WikiCrime
WikiHarassment
WikiHate
WikiLawyering
WikiLove
WikiPeace
Essays on notability
Advanced source searching
All high schools can be notable
Alternative outlets
Arguments to avoid in deletion discussions
Articles with a single source
Avoid template creep
Bare notability
Big events make key participants notable
Bombardment
Businesses with a single location
But it's true!
Citation overkill
Common sourcing mistakes
Clones
Coatrack
Discriminate vs indiscriminate information
Drafts are not checked for notability or sanity
Every snowflake is unique
Existence ≠ Notability
Existence does not prove notability
Extracting the meaning of significant coverage
Fart
Google searches and numbers
High Schools
Inclusion is not an indicator of notability
Independent sources
Inherent notability
Insignificant
Masking the lack of notability
Make stubs
News coverage does not decrease notability
No amount of editing can overcome a lack of notability
No big loss
No one cares about your garage band
No one really cares
Notability/Historical/Arguments
Notability cannot be purchased
Notability comparison test
Notability is not a level playing field
Notability is not a matter of opinion
Notability is not relevance or reliability
Notability means impact
Notability points
Notability sub-pages
Notabilitymandering
Not every single thing Donald Trump does deserves an article
Obscurity ≠ Lack of notability
Offline sources
One hundred words
One sentence does not an article make
Other stuff exists
Overreliance upon Google
Perennial websites
Pokémon test
Read the source
Reducing consensus to an algorithm
Run-of-the-mill
Significant coverage not required
Solutions are mixtures and nothing else
Subjective importance
Third-party sources
Trivial mentions
Video links
Vanispamcruftisement
What BLP1E is not
What is and is not routine coverage
What notability is not
What to include
Wikipedia is not here to tell the world about your noble cause
Humorous essays
Anti-Wikipedian
Asshole John rule
Assume bad faith
Assume faith
Assume good wraith
Assume stupidity
Assume that everyone's assuming good faith, assuming that you are assuming good faith
Avoid using preview button
Avoid using wikilinks
Bad Jokes and Other Deleted Nonsense
BOLD, revert, revert, revert
Boston Tea Party
Barnstaritis
Don't stuff beans up your nose
Don't-give-a-fuckism
Editcountitis
Edits Per Day
Editsummarisis
Emerson
Seven Ages of Editor, by Will E. Spear-Shake
Go ahead, vandalize
How many Wikipedians does it take to change a lightbulb?
How to put up a straight pole by pushing it at an angle
Is that even an essay?
Newcomers are delicious, so go ahead and bite them
Legal vandalism
LTTAUTMAOK
No climbing the Reichstag dressed as Spider-Man
Oops Defense
Please be a giant dick, so we can ban you
Please bite the newbies
R-e-s-p-e-c-t
Requests for medication
Requirements for adminship
Rouge admin
Rouge editor
Sarcasm is really helpful
Sausages for tasting
The Night Before Wikimas
The first rule of Wikipedia
The Five Pillars of Untruth
Things that should not be surprising
The WikiBible
Watchlistitis
Why not create an account?
You don't have to be mad to work here, but
About essaysAbout essays
Essay guide
Value of essays
Difference between policies, guidelines and essays
Don't cite essays as if they were policy
Avoid writing redundant essays
Finding an essay
Quote your own essay
Policies and guidelines
About policies and guidelines
Policies
Guidelines
How to contribute to Wikipedia guidance
Policy writing is hard






Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:WikiProject_Editor_Retention&amp;oldid=1042979647"
		Categories: Active WikiProjectsWikiProject Editor RetentionWikipedia culture
	


	



	Navigation menu
	
		
	
		
		Personal tools
	
	
		
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		
	


		
			
	
		
		Namespaces
	
	
		
		Project pageTalk
		
	


			
	
	
		
		Variants
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


		
		
			
	
		
		Views
	
	
		
		ReadEditView history
		
	


			
	
	
		
		More
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


			
	
			
				Search
			
		
			
				
				
				
				
			
		
	


		
	
	

	
		
	
	
	
		
		Navigation
	
	
		
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		
	


	
	
		
		Contribute
	
	
		
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		
	


	
		
		Tools
	
	
		
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
		
	


	
		
		Print/export
	
	
		
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		
	


	
	
		
		Languages
	
	
		
		EspañolРусскийУкраїнська
		Edit links
	






	
	 This page was last edited on 7 September 2021, at 18:54&nbsp;(UTC).
	Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


	
	Privacy policy
	About Wikipedia
	Disclaimers
	Contact Wikipedia
	Mobile view
	Developers
	Statistics
	Cookie statement


	
	
	







