



User talk:Palindromesemordnilap - Wikipedia





























	
	
	
	
	User talk:Palindromesemordnilap
	
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		
		
		
		
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		

This is Palindromesemordnilap's talk page, where you can send them messages and comments.





Put new text under old text. Click here to start a new topic.
Sign your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
New to Wikipedia? Welcome! Learn to edit; get help.


Assume good faith
Be polite and avoid personal attacks
Be welcoming to newcomers
Seek dispute resolution if needed



Archives: Index, Index, 1

 








Contents

1 Neat!
2 Wilmington, Delaware

2.1 Follow-up message
2.2 Follow-up message
2.3 Additional info on term "battalion chief"
2.4 Follow-up message


3 Speedy deletion nomination of Derrick Milano
4 The longest palindrome of which I know
5 ArbCom 2021 Elections voter message



Neat![edit]


I guess you do like palindromes. But how you manage to revert the image in your signature is a true work of art! Kudos! warshy (¥¥) 21:05, 30 January 2021 (UTC)

Thanks, warshy, I'm glad you like it! To revert the image in my signature, I used some websites – I think a combination of this one and this one, or something similar – where you can type in a word, and then you get the corresponding characters that look like the word you entered but upside down. For example, for the upside down "l", it suggested using a version of the letter Nun, which is not a letter I knew would look like an upside down "l" but apparently does a pretty good job! palindrome§ǝɯoɹpuᴉןɐd 21:32, 30 January 2021 (UTC)
Thanks for the explanations. I'm still a little confused about the difference between the username and the signature name, but I guess you couldn't use the § sing in the username. Is "ese" somehow related to the name of the § sign? Sorry for so many seemingly stupid questions, you really don't have to explain anything to me if you don't feel like. In any case, I enjoyed looking at your creativity. Thanks, warshy (¥¥) 23:29, 30 January 2021 (UTC)
warshy, don't worry about it! My intent was for the signature to just be a stylized form of my username. I chose the § sign with the idea that it looks like an "s", and I also thought it improved the readability of my username, and made for a good divider between links to my user and talk pages (nothing deeper than that, really). So it's kind of like "palindrome§ǝɯoɹpuᴉןɐd" → "palindromesǝɯoɹpuᴉןɐd" → "palindromesemordnilap" (my username). I set a custom signature in Preferences &gt; Signature. The custom signature (with bolding, links, and colors) is
[[User:Palindromesemordnilap|&lt;b style="color:#800000"&gt;palindrome&lt;/b&gt;]]§[[User talk:Palindromesemordnilap|&lt;b style="color:#017745"&gt;ǝɯoɹpuᴉןɐd&lt;/b&gt;]]
which (without bolding, colors, and real links) is basically
[[Userpage|palindrome]]§[[Talkpage|ǝɯoɹpuᴉןɐd]]
Let me know if you have any follow-up questions! palindrome§ǝɯoɹpuᴉןɐd 01:02, 31 January 2021 (UTC)
Palindromesemordnilap&nbsp;(talk&nbsp;· contribs) - Wow! Thank you so much for the time spent with probably rather irrelevant questions (certainly for you), and for the lesson on Wikipedia editing. For me it was all quite enlightening and a pleasure to look at and learn, so thank you again. Regards, warshy (¥¥)
I also dropped by because of your signature. While I currently use a mirror-image signature, I've previously had upside-down ones. I have a suggested tweak which I think would be an improvement to your signature. Replace the ᴉ with &lt;span style="position:relative;top:.2em;"&gt;ᴉ&lt;/span&gt; to produce palindrome§ǝɯoɹpuᴉןɐd. I think it looks much better with everything lined up. MANdARAX&nbsp;•&nbsp;XAЯAbИAM 19:25, 27 May 2021 (UTC)
I was using an iPad when I wrote the above. It occurred to me that this may appear differently on different devices, so I checked, and I see that everything lines up fine in your current signature on Windows, although on some browsers, such as Firefox and IE, some letters are bolder than others. On iPads and Macs, the "ᴉ" is much higher than the other text; additionally, on Macs the upside-down "l" is bent. On an iPhone, it's all lined up, but the "ᴉ" has serifs, so it doesn't match the right-side-up one. On Androids, it's almost right, but the upside-down "l" is just a tiny bit too high. I remember that it was such differences (as well as some letters not showing up at all in some cases) that prompted me to abandon my upside-down signatures. Oh, well. (BTW, sorry about messing up the section heading – it's always hazardous when editing with an iPad.) MANdARAX&nbsp;•&nbsp;XAЯAbИAM 21:15, 27 May 2021 (UTC)
Hi Mandarax, oh, that makes sense! I'm editing on Windows, and it shows up almost perfectly there, so I was wondering what things were looking like from your end. I also have an Android, and I see the issue you mentioned of a mis-aligned "l" on there, but that's it.
Here's the message I had typed before getting an edit conflict and seeing your message (I included a screenshot of what my original signature looks like to me, and of what my signature looks like to me with the suggestion you made):
"I'm glad you like my signature – you've definitely had your share of cool signatures over the years! Thanks for the suggestion, too. The use of top:.2em; seems like it could come in handy. I think I'll leave my signature how it is for now because, at least from my end, it renders pretty well. For me, adding &lt;span style="position:relative;top:.2em;"&gt;ᴉ&lt;/span&gt; ends up displacing the upside-down "i" character. I captured a screenshot of my current signature (first image), and of the signature with the additional code added (second image)."
The first image shows how I see my signature. The second image shows how I see my signature when I add the additional code.

I hadn't considered that upside-down signatures could look markedly different on different platforms. I'll stick with this signature for now, but if I end up changing it, I'll think twice before including flipped text. Thanks again for the messages and the suggestions! palindrome§ǝɯoɹpuᴉןɐd 21:23, 27 May 2021 (UTC)
It's too bad it's not consistent everywhere. I'm back on an iPad now, and the version I displayed above with my modification looks just like your first image file, of how you see your signature. I'm glad you didn't think I was just crazy for suggesting something that, with your configuration, must've seemed crazy. MANdARAX&nbsp;•&nbsp;XAЯAbИAM 00:52, 28 May 2021 (UTC)
Wilmington, Delaware[edit]


A battalion Chief is the tour, or shift commander,  a tour or shift is like any other line of work,  8 hour day.  The Battalion Chief is the officer that you see riding in the  SUV.  So I am going to put my edit back.  Ok.  You can contact me if you have any questions.  Thanks Doriden (talk) 15:35, 9 June 2021 (UTC)

I left it alone and just added under the command of a battalion chief. Doriden (talk) 15:40, 9 June 2021 (UTC)
Follow-up message[edit]


Sir  he is the chief of the whole dept, you demoted him (LOL), the battalion chief is kind of like the manager of Field operations, it is the position after captain.  I  told you to ask me if you have any questions.  Please leave it like I had it. It's not bothering anyone,  and anyone bothering to read about the fire department would know what a Battalion Chief is.  A Battalion is a group of men. Like the military also uses the word battalion as do all fire departments.  Thank you Doriden (talk) 20:54, 9 June 2021 (UTC)

Doriden, shoot, thanks for pointing that out. When I found the news article about the new chief, I misread it. (I thought it was saying that John Looney is the new battalion chief, but it was saying that he was a battalion chief and is now the chief.) Thanks for catching and explaining my mistake! palindrome§ǝɯoɹpuᴉןɐd 21:02, 9 June 2021 (UTC)


No problem sir Doriden (talk) 21:08, 9 June 2021 (UTC)

Follow-up message[edit]


The fire chief,  unlike a Battalion Chief (there are several Battalion chiefs) is an administrative position and seldom respond to fire scenes unless a very large fire or some kind of unusual situation or injury or a death involved.  A Battalion Chief is the field chief and is in charge of the shift,  whether it be a 12 hour shift,  24 hr shift,  or whatever that particular city is using.  It could be 2 days on 3 days off, etc.. but they are supervised by the Battalion Chief.   Feel free to contact me if you have any questions.   Thank you Doriden (talk) 21:06, 9 June 2021 (UTC)

Additional info on term "battalion chief"[edit]


A large city with more firefighters may have more than one Battalion Chief on duty for each shift (work period).  The city that I worked for had 4 Battalion Chiefs on duty each shift. The FDNY has more than 50 Battalion chiefs on duty each shift.  The Battalion Chief reports to the Deputy Chief, who in turn reports to the chief of the Department.  That's basically the chain of command in most fire departments.   Thank you Doriden (talk) 21:21, 9 June 2021 (UTC)

Follow-up message[edit]


Hello, I just wanted to let you know that I added a Wikipedia link to the term Battalion Chief in the Wilmington Deleware Wikipedia page under the fire department paragraph.   Thank You,  Doriden Doriden (talk) 09:03, 10 June 2021 (UTC)

Thanks, that was a good idea! palindrome§ǝɯoɹpuᴉןɐd 13:21, 10 June 2021 (UTC)
Speedy deletion nomination of Derrick Milano[edit]





If this is the first article that you have created, you may want to read the guide to writing your first article.

You may want to consider using the Article Wizard to help you create articles.




A tag has been placed on Derrick Milano requesting that it be speedily deleted from Wikipedia. This has been done under section G4 of the criteria for speedy deletion, because the page appears to be a repost of material that was previously deleted following a deletion discussion, at Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/Derrick Milano (2nd nomination). When a page has substantially identical content to that of a page deleted after a discussion, and any changes in the content do not address the reasons for which the material was previously deleted, it may be deleted at any time. 


If you think this page should not be deleted for this reason, you may contest the nomination by visiting the page and clicking the button labelled "Contest this speedy deletion". This will give you the opportunity to explain why you believe the page should not be deleted. However, be aware that once a page is tagged for speedy deletion, it may be deleted without delay. Please do not remove the speedy deletion tag from the page yourself, but do not hesitate to add information in line with Wikipedia's policies and guidelines. If the page is deleted, and you wish to retrieve the deleted material for future reference or improvement, then please contact the deleting administrator, or if you have already done so, you can place a request here.  Onel5969 TT me 18:31, 3 July 2021 (UTC)

The longest palindrome of which I know[edit]


Nothing to do with Wikipedia, but the longest palindrome of which I know is "Straw? No, too stupid. I put soot on warts." Do you know of any longer ones? Peaceray (talk) 17:59, 27 October 2021 (UTC)

Oh, guess I should have looked at Palindrome#Long palindromes. Never mind ... Peaceray (talk) 18:04, 27 October 2021 (UTC)
Hi Peaceray, the first long-ish palindrome that comes to mind for me is "A man, a plan, a canal: Panama" (which isn't as long as the palindrome you provided!). I think I've looked at that "long palindromes" entry you linked to above, but I didn't remember that there's a 58,795-letter palindromic novel. That's crazy! palindrome§ǝɯoɹpuᴉןɐd 22:49, 27 October 2021 (UTC)
ArbCom 2021 Elections voter message[edit]

Hello! Voting in the 2021 Arbitration Committee elections is now open until 23:59 (UTC) on Monday, 6 December 2021. All eligible users are allowed to vote. Users with alternate accounts may only vote once.


The Arbitration Committee is the panel of editors responsible for conducting the Wikipedia arbitration process. It has the authority to impose binding solutions to disputes between editors, primarily for serious conduct disputes the community has been unable to resolve. This includes the authority to impose site bans, topic bans, editing restrictions, and other measures needed to maintain our editing environment. The arbitration policy describes the Committee's roles and responsibilities in greater detail.


If you wish to participate in the 2021 election, please review the candidates and submit your choices on the voting page.  If you no longer wish to receive these messages, you may add {{NoACEMM}} to your user talk page. MediaWiki message delivery (talk) 00:57, 23 November 2021 (UTC)









Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_talk:Palindromesemordnilap&amp;oldid=1056688373"
		
	


	



	Navigation menu
	
		
	
		
		Personal tools
	
	
		
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		
	


		
			
	
		
		Namespaces
	
	
		
		User pageTalk
		
	


			
	
	
		
		Variants
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


		
		
			
	
		
		Views
	
	
		
		ReadEditNew sectionView history
		
	


			
	
	
		
		More
			expanded
			collapsed
	
	
		
		
		
	


			
	
			
				Search
			
		
			
				
				
				
				
			
		
	


		
	
	

	
		
	
	
	
		
		Navigation
	
	
		
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		
	


	
	
		
		Contribute
	
	
		
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		
	


	
		
		Tools
	
	
		
		What links hereRelated changesUser contributionsUser logsView user groupsUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information
		
	


	
		
		Print/export
	
	
		
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		
	


	
	
		
		Languages
	
	
		
		
		
	






	
	 This page was last edited on 23 November 2021, at 00:57&nbsp;(UTC).
	Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


	
	Privacy policy
	About Wikipedia
	Disclaimers
	Contact Wikipedia
	Mobile view
	Developers
	Statistics
	Cookie statement


	
	
	







