


    
    
    Olympic Host City Election |  From Candidate to Host City        

    
    

        
            
    
    
        
            
        
    
                
            
            
            
            
        
        
        
                
                        
            

    
    
    
    






    































    
    










    

                              

    
    
    
            
    
    
    
        
            
                
                    

                        
                            
                                
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                        
                                            
                                                IOC
                                                

Principles and Missions

    Mission
    Olympic values
    Olympic rings
    Olympic Charter
    Olympic motto
    Olympic anthem
    Olympic Agenda 2020
    Olympic Agenda 2020+5



Organisation

    President
    Members
    Executive Board
    Commissions
    Sessions
    Congresses
    Administration
    Careers
    Events
    Olympic House
    Publications



IOC History

    Pierre de Coubertin
    Ancient Games



Finance

    Funding
    Licencing
    Ticketing
    Suppliers
    Philatelic and Numismatic

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Games
                                                

Olympic Games

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    Los Angeles 2028
    Brisbane 2032
    Past Olympic Games
    Future Host Election
    Past Host Elections
    New Norm



Youth Olympic Games

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Olympic Legacy

    Legacy through youth
    Candidature Legacies



                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Athletes
                                                


    Athletes' community
    Educational Tools
    Fight Against Doping
    Healthy Body Image
    Medical Research
    Safe Sport

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Movement
                                                


  
        National Olympic Committees
        NOC Associations
        International Sports Federations
       Associations of International Sport Federations
       Organising Committees for the Olympic Games
       The Olympic Partners programme
      Broadcasters
      Governing Bodies
  


                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Beyond the Games
                                                


  
      Art, Culture and Heritage
      Education
      Gender Equality in Sport
 Human Rights
      Integrity
      Olympic Day
Olympic Solidarity
      Peace &amp; development
      Refugees
Sport and Active Society
      Sustainability
      Young Leaders
  

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Media
                                                


    Press releases
    IOC Statements 
    Media Accreditation
    Event Calendar

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                News
                                                

International Olympic Committee

    IOC News
    IOC Statements
    Olympic Agenda
    Olympic Highlights
    Press Releases
    Olympic Studies Centre 



Olympic Games 

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    LA 2028
    

    Youth Olympic Games
    

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Beyond the Games

    Culture and heritage
    Fight against doping 
    Gender equality
    Legacy 
    Refugee Olympic Team
    Sustainability 



TOP

    Airbnb
    Alibaba
    Allianz
    Atos
    Bridgestone
    Coca-Cola
    Dow
    Intel
    Omega
    Panasonic
    P&amp;G
    Samsung
    Toyota
    Visa

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Documents
                                                


    International Olympic Committee
    Olympic Games
    Athletes
    Olympic Movement
    Beyond the Games
    Media

                                                
                                            
                                        
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympics
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Museum
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Athlete 365
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Studies Centre
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Refuge Foundation
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Beijing 2022
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Shop
                                                    
                                                
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    English
                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                

©2021 
                            
                                
                                    

International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.
                                
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
            
        
    

    



    
        
            
                Future Host Election 
            


        

            
                
            
    


    
        
    
        
            News
                Go to News
        

        
            Prev
        

        
            Next
        

        

    
        
            
            Future Host Election 
            11 Oct 2021
            Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović announced as Chair of the Future Host Commission for the Games of the Olympiad
        
    

    
        
            
            Brisbane 2032 
            21 Jul 2021
            IOC elects Brisbane 2032 as Olympic and Paralympic host
        
    

    
        
            
            Future Host Election 
            10 Jun 2021
            IOC Executive Board puts forward Brisbane 2032  for election by IOC Session
        
    

    
        
            
            IOC News 
            13 May 2021
            Future Host Commission continues Targeted Dialogue with Brisbane 2032 and the Australian Olympic Committee
        
    

    
        
            
            IOC News 
            12 Mar 2021
            IOC Session endorses new future hosts approach and targeted dialogue with Brisbane 2032
        
    

    
        
            
            IOC News 
            24 Feb 2021
            Brisbane and AOC invited to targeted dialogue for the Olympic Games 2032
        
    

    
        
            
            IOC News 
            17 Jul 2020
            Strong hosting interest confirms key role for Olympic Games in post-coronavirus world
        
    

    
        
            
            IOC News 
            17 Jul 2020
            Olympic Agenda 2020 reduces candidature budgets by around 80 per cent 
        
    

    
        
            
            Dakar 2026 
            15 Jul 2020
            Senegal and the IOC agree to postpone the Youth Olympic Games Dakar 2022 to 2026
        
    

    
        
            
            IOC News 
            08 Jan 2020
            IOC Session to vote on Gangwon’s proposal to host Winter Youth Olympic Games 2024
        
    

    
        
            
            IOC News 
            03 Oct 2019
            IOC Members Kristin Kloster Aasen and Octavian Morariu lead Future Host Commissions
        
    

    
        
            
            IOC News 
            26 Jun 2019
            Evolution of the revolution: IOC transforms future Olympic Games elections
        
    
        
    

    
        

            ​New approach to future host elections


The revolutionary new approach to electing hosts for Olympic Games and youth Olympic Games results in significant cost savings for potential hosts, as well as more sustainable projects and master plans. 


The reforms ensure the IOC remains in step with a rapidly changing world to deliver games that are better aligned with future hosts’ long-term development plans while maintaining the inherent magic of the games and providing the best possible experience for athletes.


The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has made significant improvements to its approach to future hosts since the election of Thomas Bach as IOC President in 2013.


The reforms began in earnest in 2014 with the unanimous approval by the&nbsp;full membership of the IOC,* collectively known as the IOC Session, of&nbsp;Olympic Agenda 2020,&nbsp;a strategic roadmap for the future of the Olympic Movement that, with a focus on increasing sustainability and legacies, led to a major review of all aspects of organising the Olympic Games and Youth Olympic Games.


View a presentation about the new approach to electing future hosts


One of the key areas addressed by Olympic Agenda 2020 was the candidature procedure, with a new philosophy introduced that invited potential hosts to present &nbsp;projects that best fit their sporting, economic, social and environmental-planning needs rather than trying to fit the local context to the Games. The goal was to create Olympic projects that are less expensive and that maximise operational efficiencies, while also unlocking greater value for future hosts, with a strong emphasis on legacy and sustainability.


Building on the success of these initiatives, 2018 saw the adoption of&nbsp;the New Norm, additional reforms that provided Olympic hosts with even more flexibility in designing the Games to meet their long-term development goals. The IOC also increased the assistance and expertise it and the wider Olympic Movement provided.


The&nbsp;impact of these reforms has been considerable. A one-year, non-committal dialogue stage introduced for the candidature phase of the Olympic Winter Games 2026, for example, resulted in significant cost reductions in both the candidature and operating budgets – approximately 80 and 20 per cent lower, respectively, than the average for 2018 and 2022. As a reflection of the IOC’s flexibility with regard to the use of existing and temporary venues, 80 per cent of the proposed venues for 2026 were existing or temporary, a 33 per cent increase from the 2018/2022 average of 60 per cent.


So effective and appreciated was the increased partnership during the 2026 dialogue stage that the IOC set up a Working Group in early 2019 to consider ways to build upon these elements for the future.


*IOC Members represent the athletes, International Federations (IFs), National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and the International Paralympic Committee (IPC).
Increased Flexibility and dialogue


Following consultation with the IOC Executive Board (EB), the Working Group recommendations were presented to and approved by the IOC Session in June 2019. The Executive Board then agreed on an action plan for their implementation in October 2019, resulting in the creation of a new, streamlined approach to future host elections that allows for increased flexibility and cooperation on a bilateral level.


This approach is creating greater opportunities for dialogue between the IOC and Interested Parties (cities/regions/countries/National Olympic Committees), while allowing for more flexibility with regard to the timing of future elections. In addition, Interested Parties are not necessarily limited to a single city but can refer to multiple cities, a region or a country.


The door is open to any Interested Party to enter into non-committal continuous dialogue with the IOC through two permanent Future Host Commissions (see below for more information). It also allows the IOC to target a potential host if deemed beneficial to the Olympic Movement.


The initial dialogue does not have to be edition-specific, with discussions intended to determine whether a potential host is best suited to organise an Olympic Games or a Youth Olympic Games, and when. The strict timelines and deadlines of the past no longer exist.


The IOC will continue to offer hands-on support and expertise to help define and develop projects in partnership with the Interested Parties that will produce many long-lasting legacies for the local populations.


The new approach mirrors the rapidly changing world we live in: As the governing body of the Olympic Movement, the IOC has positioned itself at the vanguard of innovation and development to help deliver the best possible Olympic projects with the most benefits for Olympic stakeholders and future hosts alike.


“We must continue to keep up with the fast pace of change in our current world,” said President Bach. “Flexibility is a necessity to ensure good governance and to have sustainable Olympic Games in the future. We will do that while maintaining the magic of the Games, the fundamental principle of universality and our commitment to having athletes at the centre of everything we do.”  &nbsp;
What are the innovations ?

    The establishment of a&nbsp;permanent, non-committal and non-edition specific ongoing dialogue to explore and create interest among Interested Parties for the Olympic Games and Youth Olympic Games;
    Once a potential host is identified, it does not mean the end of the line for other Interested Parties, as in the past. They can remain in Continuous Dialogue with the Future Host Commissions, to discuss hosting a future Olympic event.
    The creation of&nbsp;two Future Host Commissions (Summer and Winter) to oversee interest in future Olympic Games and Youth Olympic Games and advise the Executive Board;
    Giving the IOC Session more influence by having non-Executive Board members make up the Future Host Commissions.

Future host commissions


The two Future Host Commissions were appointed by IOC President Bach in October 2019. Both are gender-balanced and represent a full range of Olympic stakeholders, including athletes, International Federations (IFs), National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and the International Paralympic Committee (IPC).


The Commissions comprise IOC Members who are not on the Executive Board to ensure that the IOC Session has even more influence by being involved from the very beginning of the dialogue.&nbsp;The full composition of the Commissions can be found here: Summer&nbsp;and Winter.


The Commissions will respect any confidentiality that may be requested by potential&nbsp;hosts as they work toward the development of the public and&nbsp;private dimensions of their project, as well as the content of any&nbsp;discussion of&nbsp;particular proposals.


The Terms of Reference of the Commissions and Rules of Conduct for the Commissions can be found&nbsp;here.
Role of the future host commissions


The role of the Future Host Commissions is to continually explore, monitor and encourage interest in future Olympic Games, Olympic Winter Games and Youth Olympic Games.


The Commissions interact with potential hosts to determine the nature and extent of their possible interest and work with them to understand the various elements and opportunities of the Olympic Games and the Youth Olympic Games.


The Commissions will assist interested parties in formulating a strong vision for their Olympic project and designing sustainable proposals that align with their long-term development goals.


The role of the Commissions is also to study the long-term challenges related to hosting future Olympic Games, such as climate change.


The Commissions will report regularly to the Executive Board, providing advice and recommendations regarding possible hosts to enable the Executive Board to be in a position to react to various developments and opportunities deemed to be in the best interest of the Olympic Movement.
Continuous vs targeted dialogue – what are the differences?



Continuous dialogue


With this new approach, the Future Host Commissions remain open for dialogue in perpetuity.


Continuous dialogue is exploratory in nature and non-committal, held with Interested Parties for a future Olympic Games or Youth Olympic Games with the support of their respective National Olympic Committees (NOCs). These discussions are non-edition specific.


Throughout this dialogue, the Commissions constantly monitor and analyse the projects, providing feasibility assessments that will form the basis for recommendations and advice provided at frequent intervals to the IOC Executive Board (EB).
Targeted dialogue


A Targeted Dialogue is a defined process to explore a proposal to host a specific edition of the Olympic and Paralympic Games, or Youth Olympic Games. It is a collaborative partnership that is opened when the International Olympic Committee’s Executive Board (EB) invites one or more Preferred Host(s) to enter into detailed discussions to refine their project(s).


While there is no set timeframe for Targeted Dialogue, as each situation is contextual, it is not anticipated to exceed 12 months.


During that time, in the spirit of the partnership hosting approach instigated by Olympic Agenda 2020, the IOC will offer a series of workshops based on and tailored to the particular needs of the Preferred Host(s). These could be on subjects such as: venue masterplan, legacy, sustainability, finance and marketing, Games technology, digital engagement, and legal matters. Such workshops help the Preferred Host(s) to ensure that their Games project(s) are in line with existing long-term development plans, and that they have taken into account latest developments in Olympic Games planning and delivery to provide operationally-efficient, cost-effective and sustainable Games. Under its new approach to selecting future Olympic hosts, the IOC shares information and expertise at its own cost in direct services to Interested Parties, thus reducing expenses for potential hosts.


As part of Targeted Dialogue, each Preferred Host will provide answers to the IOC’s Future Host Questionnaire for the Olympic Games or Olympic Winter Games in the form of an Initial Submission. It will also be requested to provide guarantees that back up its submission. Following discussion with the Future Host Commission, the Preferred Host(s) will have the opportunity to review their responses before making a Final Submission.


The Future Host Commission will prepare a report based on this Final Submission, for the consideration of the IOC EB. The EB will decide whether to recommend one or more Preferred Host(s) for election by the IOC Session. If the EB recommends a Preferred Host for election, the Future Host Commission’s report and the Preferred Host’s Final Submission will be provided to all IOC Members and published on olympics.com/ioc.
Vote by the IOC session


The Session’s prerogative to elect Games hosts has been preserved.


Once the Executive Board has put forward the Preferred Host(s) to the IOC Session, IOC Members will have the opportunity to hear presentations, ask questions and provide comments before voting for the future host.


IOC Members therefore continue to be at the centre of the decision-making process.
Benefits of the new approach


With its strong commitment to flexibility, sustainability, legacies and the optimisation of all aspects of the Olympic Games, the IOC aims with the new approach to remain in step with a rapidly changing world to deliver Olympic events that are fully aligned with future hosts’ long-term development plans and Olympic Agenda 2020 and Olympic Agenda 2020+5 while maintaining the magic of the Games and providing the best possible experience on and off the field of play for the athletes.
Targeted Dialogue Brisbane 2032


The International Olympic Committee is currently working together with Brisbane 2032 and the Australian Olympic Committee to explore the potential to host the Games of the XXXV Olympiad. This is the first Targeted Dialogue process opened since the new approach to electing Olympic hosts was adopted.


The Future Host Commission will report back to the IOC Executive Board (EB) on the outcome of these discussions in due course. If all the requirements are met, the EB can propose the election of the Preferred Host of the Games of XXXV Olympiad to the IOC Session. If the discussions are not successfully concluded, Brisbane 2032 will rejoin Continuous Dialogue.


At the same time, Continuous Dialogue remains open with other Interested Parties, in order to assist them to further develop their projects, be it for the Olympic Games 2032 if the Targeted Dialogue with Brisbane 2032 and the AOC is not successful, for&nbsp;future editions of the Olympic Games, the Youth Olympic Games or potentially other Olympic events.


Transparency is an important feature of the new approach to electing Olympic hosts. Key documents related to the process are published on olympic.org A Future Host Contract is already available.​

        
    

        Future host documents
        
            Learn more
        

        Register of Consultants
        
            Any consultant working for an Interested Party must register on the IOC’s Register of Consultants. Registration is a prerequisite for the provision of any service and/or the signature of any service contract by the NOC and/or the Interested Party.
        
        
            View
        

    
    



back to top
    
    
            
                
            
        
            
                
                
                
                    
International Olympic Committee                    
                
            
            

                        
                            
                                International Olympic Committee
                            
                                
                                    Principles and Mission
Organisation
Events calendar
Careers
IOC Publications

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Explore
                            
                                
                                    Athletes
Olympic Games
Olympic Movement
TOP
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Beyond the Games
                            
                                
                                    Fight Against Doping
Gender Equality
Legacy
Refugees
Sustainability

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Media
                            
                                
                                    Press releases
Statements 
Media Accreditation
News
Subscribe to press releases
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                More Olympic sites
                            
                                
                                    Olympics.com
Museum
Athlete 365
Olympic Studies Centre
Tokyo 2020
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Information
                            
                                
                                    Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Privacy Policy 
Terms of Service 
 FAQs
About us 
Contact us 


                                
                        
            
            
                
© 2021 International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.                
                
                    Follow us
                
                
                                
                                
                
            
        
        
            
                
                
            
        
    
    

    



    
    
    


