


    
    

        

    


    




    

    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    

    
    



















    
    










Cookie Policy | Olympics.com















	
	
	
		









	

			






















	


	
	


















	

























    
    
    
    
    

    
    

    

    

    
    
    
    
    
    

        
    
    

    

    
    

            
            
            
            
            

    

    
    
    

            


    

    



      
      
      
      
      
    
    
      
    







        


    

    








    
        







            


    


        













  

    

        Skip to main content
        
        



    
        
            
                
                    We've partnered with selected media partners in the US to bring you Olympic Channel Plus content.

                    
                
            
            In order to view this content, please sign in with one of our partner accounts. Please select below.
        
        

            
            
                

                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    Xfinity
                                
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    Direct TV
                                
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    Dish
                                
                            
                        
                    


                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    AT&amp;T U-Verse
                                
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    Verizon
                                
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    Charter Spectrum
                                
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    Optimum
                                
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    Mediacom
                                
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    WOW!
                                
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    Cable ONE
                                
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    RCN
                                
                            
                        
                    


                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    Armstrong
                                
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    Frontier Communications
                                
                            
                        
                    

                
            
            
            
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                    {name}
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
            
        
        
            
                
                    See more providers
                
            
        
    

    
        
        
    









    
        

    



  
    
  

  
    




    








  Select your language

  
    
      English
    
    
        English
        Français
        Deutsch
        Italiano
        Português
        Español
        日本語
        العربية
        中文
        हिंदी
        한국어
        Русский
    
  





  

        
          
          
          
        
  






    
        
            
                
                Loading...
            
        

        
        
    

    

        


        
        

            


  







    
        
            
                
                    Cookie Policy
                

                


This Cookie Policy (the "Cookie Policy") describes the different types of cookies or similar technologies (otherwise referred to here as “cookies”) that are used in connection with the websites and other digital properties managed by the International Olympic Committee (“IOC”) alone or in cooperation with the Olympic Foundation for Culture and Heritage (the “Foundation”), or the Organising Committees for the Olympic and Paralympic Games (the “OCOGs”). These digital properties are referred to here as “Digital Platforms”.



When we refer to ‘’we’’, ‘’our’’ or “us” in this Cookie Policy, we are referring to the IOC and, where applicable, to the Foundation or relevant OCOG.



With respect to that section of the Digital Platform Olympics.com which is dedicated to the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020, such OCOG is the Tokyo Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games as established by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and the Japanese Olympic Committee.



The Foundation is engaged in those Digital Platforms that relate to the Olympic Museum (in particular https://olympics.com/museum, https://museumshop.olympics.com); and the Olympic Studies Centre (in particular https://olympics.com/ioc/olympic-studies-centre, https://library.olympics.com/).



When we refer to “you” or “your” we refer to you as a user of the relevant Digital Platform.



We use cookies to collect certain data while you are browsing the Digital Platforms, in order to distinguish you as a user, either for the duration of your visit (“session cookie”) or when you return (“persistent cookie”).
1) What is a cookie?



A cookie is a small file, stored on your browser or computer hard drive, which is used to collect data about your device and interactions with our Digital Platforms, such as browser type, operating system, IP address, device type, location, browsing date and time.  



Cookies are placed on your device by us (“first party cookies”) or by third parties (“third party cookies”). These third parties include organisations that provide analytics and advertising services to us. The details of these third parties are listed in our Cookies Settings, which are made available when you first visit the Digital Platforms and remain accessible on each subsequent visit to our Digital Platforms.
2) What kind of cookies do we use?



We use different types of cookies, including:


Strictly Necessary cookies that enable you to navigate our Digital Platforms. These cookies are necessary for the Digital Platforms to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the Digital Platforms will not then work.
Functional cookies that enhance the functionality and personalisation of our Digital Platforms by storing your preferences. If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of the services available via that Digital Platform may not function properly.
Performance and Analytics cookies collect certain information that allow us to improve the performance of our Digital Platforms and help us to provide you with what we believe to be the best user experience. These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our Digital Platforms. These cookies also allow us to build a profile of your interests and browsing patterns, for the purpose of personalising your experience and offering you the most relevant content. They help us to know how our Digital Platforms perform and which pages are the most and least popular and to see how visitors move around the Digital Platforms. If you do not allow these cookies we will not be able to learn more about the use and performance of our Digital Platforms and your experience will not be as personalised and relevant to you.
Marketing and Advertising cookies that enable the tailoring of online advertising served to you based on your browsing activity and the location from which you access our Digital Platforms. These cookies include cookies set by our advertising partners. They are used by us and by our advertising partners to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on our Digital Platforms as well as other sites. If you do not allow these cookies, you will continue to see online advertising, but that advertising will be less tailored to you.
Social Media cookies. These cookies are set by social media providers and include cookies that are set by the social media services that we have added to the Digital Platforms. For example, this includes social media services that enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across websites and building up a profile of your interests to show you relevant content and ads on those social media platforms. This may impact the content and messages you see on other websites you visit, including social media platforms. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see the social media sharing tools.




The details of the cookies for each category (session/persistent cookies, expiration time, cookies used, first or third party cookie) are available in the Cookies Settings on each Digital Platform.
3) Expiration time



Cookies may be kept stored on your browser or computer hard drive for as long as you keep such browser active, for session cookies, or for a longer period as permitted by law, for persistent cookies (for more information see the Cookies Settings available on each Digital Platform).
4) First party / third party cookies



As mentioned above, first party cookies and third party cookies may be placed on your device. For more information, see the Cookies Settings available on each Digital Platform.  



Data collected by these third party cookies will be processed for purposes determined by their providers. Alternatively, such providers will process the data on behalf of us. Please visit the websites of the providers to obtain further information on how they use cookies and how to exercise your rights. Details of these third parties are set out in our Cookie Settings.  



If you deny the use of all cookies, neither first party cookies nor third party cookies will be used (except the Strictly Necessary ones).
5) How do I manage cookies?



You have the possibility to withhold consent or withdraw consent to all the cookies (except the Strictly Necessary ones) or manage them through the Cookies Settings available on each Digital Platform.  



In addition to the Cookies Settings available on each Digital Platform, you can manage your cookie settings within your internet browser. More information is available here:


Edge users: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/delete-cookies-in-microsoft-edge-63947406-40ac-c3b8-57b9-2a946a29ae09#:~:text=Delete%20cookies%20every%20time%20you%20close%20the%20browser,on%20the%20Cookies%20and%20other%20site%20data%20toggle
Mozilla Firefox users: https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/enable-and-disable-cookies-website-preferences and https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/delete-cookies-remove-info-websites-stored
Google Chrome users: https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/95647?hl=en
Safari users: https://help.apple.com/safari/mac/8.0/#/sfri11471




You can also withdraw your consent to the use of cookies at any time by deleting your cookies using your internet browser settings. If you block the use of cookies on your browser, some of the services and functionalities of the Digital Platform might not be available to you, such as embedded video features.  



More information about cookies is available at www.allaboutcookies.org.



Users in the United States may opt-out of targeted advertising cookies. For example, you may go to the Digital Advertising Alliance (“DAA”) Consumer Choice Page for information about opting out of interest-based advertising and their choices regarding having information used by DAA companies. You may also go to the Network Advertising Initiative (“NAI”) Consumer Opt-Out Page for information about opting out of interest-based advertising and their choices regarding having information used by NAI members.  



Opting out from one or more companies listed on the DAA Consumer Choice Page or the NAI Consumer Opt-Out Page will opt you out from those companies’ delivery of interest-based content or ads to you, but it does not mean you will no longer receive any advertising through our Digital Platforms. You may continue to receive advertisements, for example, based on the particular website that you are viewing (i.e., contextually based ads). Also, if your browsers are configured to reject cookies when you opt out on the DAA or NAI websites, your opt out may not be effective. To opt-out and for additional information, please go to: https://optout.aboutads.info/?c=2&amp;lang=EN and https://optout.networkadvertising.org/?c=1.
6) Changes to the cookie policy



We reserve the right to modify this Cookie Policy, at any time. When we make changes, we will revise the "last updated" date at the bottom of the Cookie Policy and any change will be effective immediately upon posting. When we make changes to this Cookie Policy, we will inform you in advance where such changes impact your rights as a user of the Digital Platforms or where required by law, for example by posting a notice on the Digital Platforms. However, your continued use of the Digital Platforms following the posting of changes will constitute your acceptance of such changes. We encourage you to review the applicable version of this Cookie Policy whenever you use the Digital Platforms.  



This Cookie Policy was last updated on 29 April 2021.
7) More information



For more information about our processing of your personal data using cookies, as well as your rights under applicable data protection laws, please consult our Privacy Policy olympics.com/en/privacy-policy.  



With regard to third party cookies, please consult the third-party cookie provider’s cookies policy and privacy policy to better understand how they process your personal data and how you can exercise your rights.&nbsp;&nbsp;  



If you have any questions regarding the information included in this Cookie Policy, you may contact us through the IOC Contact link. Postal addresses or other contact information for the IOC, the Foundation and the OCOG can be found in our Privacy Policy olympics.com/en/privacy-policy.

                
            
        
    




        







    
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        




	
        
Olympic Games        
        
Beijing 2022        
        
Results &amp; Medals        
        
Replays &amp; Highlights        
        
All Olympic Games        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
Olympic Channel        
        
TV Channel        
        
Live Events        
        
Original Series        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
News        
        
Podcast        
        
Topics        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
Explore        
        
Athletes        
        
Sports        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
More        
        
International Olympic Committee        
        
Museum        
        
Shop        
        
About Us        
        
Contact Centre        
        
Sitemap        
        
Careers        
	


                    

                    

                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    
                        


  

        
          
              
          
        
        
          
              
          
        

  


                        




	
        
menu-to-hide-DO-NOT-REMOVE        
        
Cookie Policy        
        
Cookie Settings        
        
Privacy Policy        
        
Terms of Service        
	


                        

  
    

            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            

    
  
                    
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            TM © 2021 – International Olympic Committee – All Rights Reserved.
                        
                    
                
            
        
    





    

    

    

            


    
        

    



    








    









    

    

    









		
		

















    
    

    






  








    
    

        
            







        

        
        









    
















        
        
        



    

    







    
    





