


    
    
    Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games Beijing 2022 - Updates on Spectators, Vaccination and COVID-19 Countermeasures - Olympic News

    
    

        
            
    
    
        
            
            
    
    
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
    
        
        
                
            
                    
            

    
    
    
    






    































    
    









        

    

                              

    
    
    
            
    
    
    
        
            
                
                    

                        
                            
                                
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                        
                                            
                                                IOC
                                                

Principles and Missions

    Mission
    Olympic values
    Olympic rings
    Olympic Charter
    Olympic motto
    Olympic anthem
    Olympic Agenda 2020
    Olympic Agenda 2020+5



Organisation

    President
    Members
    Executive Board
    Commissions
    Sessions
    Congresses
    Administration
    Careers
    Events
    Olympic House
    Publications



IOC History

    Pierre de Coubertin
    Ancient Games



Finance

    Funding
    Licencing
    Ticketing
    Suppliers
    Philatelic and Numismatic

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Games
                                                

Olympic Games

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    Los Angeles 2028
    Brisbane 2032
    Past Olympic Games
    Future Host Election
    Past Host Elections
    New Norm



Youth Olympic Games

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Olympic Legacy

    Legacy through youth
    Candidature Legacies



                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Athletes
                                                


    Athletes' community
    Educational Tools
    Fight Against Doping
    Healthy Body Image
    Medical Research
    Safe Sport

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Movement
                                                


  
        National Olympic Committees
        NOC Associations
        International Sports Federations
       Associations of International Sport Federations
       Organising Committees for the Olympic Games
       The Olympic Partners programme
      Broadcasters
      Governing Bodies
  


                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Beyond the Games
                                                


  
      Art, Culture and Heritage
      Education
      Gender Equality in Sport
 Human Rights
      Integrity
      Olympic Day
Olympic Solidarity
      Peace &amp; development
      Refugees
Sport and Active Society
      Sustainability
      Young Leaders
  

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Media
                                                


    Press releases
    IOC Statements 
    Media Accreditation
    Event Calendar

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                News
                                                

International Olympic Committee

    IOC News
    IOC Statements
    Olympic Agenda
    Olympic Highlights
    Press Releases
    Olympic Studies Centre 



Olympic Games 

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    LA 2028
    

    Youth Olympic Games
    

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Beyond the Games

    Culture and heritage
    Fight against doping 
    Gender equality
    Legacy 
    Refugee Olympic Team
    Sustainability 



TOP

    Airbnb
    Alibaba
    Allianz
    Atos
    Bridgestone
    Coca-Cola
    Dow
    Intel
    Omega
    Panasonic
    P&amp;G
    Samsung
    Toyota
    Visa

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Documents
                                                


    International Olympic Committee
    Olympic Games
    Athletes
    Olympic Movement
    Beyond the Games
    Media

                                                
                                            
                                        
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympics
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Museum
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Athlete 365
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Studies Centre
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Refuge Foundation
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Beijing 2022
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Shop
                                                    
                                                
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    English
                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                

©2021 
                            
                                
                                    

International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.
                                
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
            
        
    

    



    
        
            
                Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games Beijing 2022 - Updates on Spectators, Vaccination and COVID-19 Countermeasures
            
        

        
            
                    
                        29 Sep 2021
                    

                
                    
    
                    IOC News
                     Press Release
                     Beijing 2022

    

                
            
        

        
            
                    
                        


                            The International Olympic Committee (IOC) held an&nbsp;Executive Board&nbsp;(EB) meeting today, in the presence of the International Paralympic Committee (IPC).&nbsp;Beijing 2022&nbsp;informed the EB of the principles that will help deliver safe and successful Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games as scheduled.
                        
                    
            
        

            
                
            
    


    
        
        
            
                
            
            
    
        

            

Considering the above objective, the IOC and IPC fully respect the principles established by Beijing 2022.


These principles are based on wide-ranging consultations with international experts and the Chinese authorities, as well as the experience of Olympic and Paralympic stakeholders.


The principles presented by Beijing 2022 will be detailed in the Playbooks. The first version of these Playbooks will be released in late October. A second version will then be published in December.

    
    

Vaccination policy
    
    
        
        

All athletes and Games participants who are fully vaccinated will enter the closed-loop management system upon arrival. Games participants who are not fully vaccinated will have to serve a 21-day quarantine upon arrival in Beijing. 
        
        
        

Athletes who can provide a justified medical exemption will have their cases considered. 
        
        
        

All vaccines recognised by WHO or related international organisations, or approved officially by the countries or regions concerned, will be accepted.
        
    
    
    
    

Games-time closed-loop management 
    
    
        
        

From 23 January until the end of the Paralympics, a closed-loop management system will be implemented to ensure the safe delivery of the Games. This closed-loop management system will cover all Games-related areas, including arrival and departure, transport, accommodation, catering, competitions, and the Opening and Closing Ceremonies. Within the closed loop, participants will be allowed to move only between Games-related venues for training, competitions and work. A dedicated Games transport system will be put in place. 
        
    
    
    
    

Spectators/Ticketing
    
    
        
        

Tickets will be sold exclusively to spectators residing in China’s mainland, who meet the requirements of the COVID-19 countermeasures.
        
        
        

Specific requirements on COVID-19 countermeasures for spectators from China’s mainland and the details of ticketing arrangements are under discussion and development, and will be released to the public in due course once they are finalised. 
        
    
    
    
    

Accredited guest policy 
    
    
        
        

Beijing 2022 and the IOC underlined that all activities are being assessed and optimised to focus on essential aspects of Games delivery. Stakeholders will apply this principle for their plans and delegation composition.
        
        
        

In line with this principle, the IOC EB decided to cancel the accompanying guest category for all stakeholders.
        
    
    
    
    

Travel
    
    
        
        

Beijing 2022 will assist those stakeholders that are not in a position to book their pre-Games or Games-time flights independently.
        
    
    
    
    

Accommodation
    
    
        
        

Besides athletes and some delegation officials who are accompanying athletes living in the Villages, all participants travelling to Beijing will reside in Beijing 2022-contracted hotels that will be compliant with the COVID-19 countermeasures for the Games.
        
    
    
    
    

Testing
    
    
        
        

All domestic and international Games participants and workforce in the closed-loop management system will be subject to daily testing.
        
    
    



The IOC and IPC welcome the decision to allow for the sale of tickets to spectators residing in China’s mainland. This will facilitate the growth of winter sports in China by giving those spectators a first-hand Olympic and Paralympic experience of elite winter sports, as well as bringing a favourable atmosphere to the venues.&nbsp; However, all parties feel for the athletes and the spectators from around the world, knowing that the restriction on spectators from outside mainland China had to be put in place in order to ensure the safe holding of the Games this winter.


Further information about the implementation of these policies and additional information about COVID-19 countermeasures will be detailed in the Playbooks, which will be released in late October and December.


The Olympic Winter Games Beijing 2022 will take place between 4 and 20 February, while the Paralympic Winter Games will be held from 4 until 13 March.


###


The International Olympic Committee is a not-for-profit, civil, non-governmental, international organisation made up of volunteers which is committed to building a better world through sport. It redistributes more than 90 per cent of its income to the wider sporting movement, which means that every day the equivalent of USD 3.4 million goes to help athletes and sports organisations at all levels around the world.


###


For more information, please contact the IOC Media Relations Team:

Tel: +41 21 621 6000, email: pressoffice@olympic.org, or visit our web site at www.ioc.org.


Broadcast quality footage


The IOC Newsroom: http://iocnewsroom.com/


Videos


YouTube: www.youtube.com/iocmedia


Photos


For an extensive selection of photos available shortly after each event, please follow us on Flickr.


To request archive photos and footage, please contact our Images team at: images@olympic.org.


Social media


For up-to-the-minute information on the IOC and regular updates, please follow us on Twitter and YouTube.

        
    

    
        
            Related News
        

        
            Prev
        

        
            Next
        

        

    
        
            
            Beijing 2022 
            22 Sep 2021
            Posters of Beijing 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Games unveiled
        
    

    
        
            
            Beijing 2022 
            17 Sep 2021
            Beijing 2022 reveals official motto: “Together for a Shared Future”
        
    

    
        
            
            Beijing 2022 
            08 Sep 2021
            NHL involvement fuels growing anticipation for Beijing 2022 Games
        
    

    
        
            
            Beijing 2022 
            12 Aug 2021
            Beijing 2022 to welcome athletes in just six months’ time
        
    
        
    

        
        
        
            
        
    


back to top
    
    
            
                
            
        
            
                
                
                
                    
International Olympic Committee                    
                
            
            

                        
                            
                                International Olympic Committee
                            
                                
                                    Principles and Mission
Organisation
Events calendar
Careers
IOC Publications

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Explore
                            
                                
                                    Athletes
Olympic Games
Olympic Movement
TOP
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Beyond the Games
                            
                                
                                    Fight Against Doping
Gender Equality
Legacy
Refugees
Sustainability

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Media
                            
                                
                                    Press releases
Statements 
Media Accreditation
News
Subscribe to press releases
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                More Olympic sites
                            
                                
                                    Olympics.com
Museum
Athlete 365
Olympic Studies Centre
Tokyo 2020
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Information
                            
                                
                                    Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Privacy Policy 
Terms of Service 
 FAQs
About us 
Contact us 


                                
                        
            
            
                
© 2021 International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.                
                
                    Follow us
                
                
                                
                                
                
            
        
        
            
                
                
            
        
    
    

    



    
    
    


