


    
    
    The all-time greats of the Ancient Olympic Games

    
    

        
            
    
    
            
        
    
                
            
            
                
        
        
        
                
                        
            

    
    
    
    






    































    
    










    

                              

    
    
    
            
    
    
    
        
            
                
                    

                        
                            
                                
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                        
                                            
                                                IOC
                                                

Principles and Missions

    Mission
    Olympic values
    Olympic rings
    Olympic Charter
    Olympic motto
    Olympic anthem
    Olympic Agenda 2020
    Olympic Agenda 2020+5



Organisation

    President
    Members
    Executive Board
    Commissions
    Sessions
    Congresses
    Administration
    Careers
    Events
    Olympic House
    Publications



IOC History

    Pierre de Coubertin
    Ancient Games



Finance

    Funding
    Licencing
    Ticketing
    Suppliers
    Philatelic and Numismatic

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Games
                                                

Olympic Games

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    Los Angeles 2028
    Brisbane 2032
    Past Olympic Games
    Future Host Election
    Past Host Elections
    New Norm



Youth Olympic Games

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Olympic Legacy

    Legacy through youth
    Candidature Legacies



                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Athletes
                                                


    Athletes' community
    Educational Tools
    Fight Against Doping
    Healthy Body Image
    Medical Research
    Safe Sport

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Movement
                                                


  
        National Olympic Committees
        NOC Associations
        International Sports Federations
       Associations of International Sport Federations
       Organising Committees for the Olympic Games
       The Olympic Partners programme
      Broadcasters
      Governing Bodies
  


                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Beyond the Games
                                                


  
      Art, Culture and Heritage
      Education
      Gender Equality in Sport
 Human Rights
      Integrity
      Olympic Day
Olympic Solidarity
      Peace &amp; development
      Refugees
Sport and Active Society
      Sustainability
      Young Leaders
  

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Media
                                                


    Press releases
    IOC Statements 
    Media Accreditation
    Event Calendar

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                News
                                                

International Olympic Committee

    IOC News
    IOC Statements
    Olympic Agenda
    Olympic Highlights
    Press Releases
    Olympic Studies Centre 



Olympic Games 

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    LA 2028
    

    Youth Olympic Games
    

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Beyond the Games

    Culture and heritage
    Fight against doping 
    Gender equality
    Legacy 
    Refugee Olympic Team
    Sustainability 



TOP

    Airbnb
    Alibaba
    Allianz
    Atos
    Bridgestone
    Coca-Cola
    Dow
    Intel
    Omega
    Panasonic
    P&amp;G
    Samsung
    Toyota
    Visa

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Documents
                                                


    International Olympic Committee
    Olympic Games
    Athletes
    Olympic Movement
    Beyond the Games
    Media

                                                
                                            
                                        
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympics
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Museum
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Athlete 365
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Studies Centre
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Refuge Foundation
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Beijing 2022
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Shop
                                                    
                                                
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    English
                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                

©2021 
                            
                                
                                    

International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.
                                
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
            
        
    

    




    
        
    
        
            
                Pankration
            


        

            
                
            
    

    
        

            

‘No biting and no gouging’ - but all else fair game in “brutal” pankration 


A combination of boxing and wrestling with barely any restrictions, pankration was the wild, no-holds barred centre of the Ancient Olympic Games. Boasting huge men of incredible strength, it became a fountain of wondrous stories and stirring myths. 



Pankration was a magnificently simple sport.


“You could do pretty much anything you could possibly imagine in order to incapacitate your opponent,” Paul Christesen, Professor of Ancient Greek History at Dartmouth College, USA, explained.


“And the Greeks thought this was the coolest thing ever.”


As with all sports, the Greeks believed a god or a hero to be responsible for inventing the rules, and in the case of pankration it was down to Theseus. The mythical man came up with a combination of wrestling and boxing to defeat the Minotaur, the half-man half-bull said to have lived in a labyrinth below the palace of King Minos of Crete.


No biting and no gouging were just about the only restrictions in Theseus’ sport, although, the ever hard-core Spartans allowed both in training in order to ready their warriors for war. Unlike boxing, hands were left bare in pankration. Typically tall men favoured punching as their go-to-tool while a stocky competitor was more likely to wrestle. Both types sought the key move, a stranglehold with one arm, leaving the other free to repeatedly punch the unfortunate opponent.


The first to fall was in trouble, liable as he was to being disabled by his adversary who would then be free to implement the feared stranglehold. There are, however, accounts of smaller, more agile fighters tricking their rival by seeming to fall to the ground in distress in order to lure their cumbersome opponents into a position whereby they could use their legs and arms to destabilise them before leaping off the floor and administering a bout-winning blow.


“We know that some people died,” Christesen said. “Our guess is that there were a lot of really nasty injuries but probably not a lot of deaths because either you passed out or you surrendered before you died.


“For example, if someone broke all the fingers in your right hand, which was a perfectly reasonable thing to do in pankration, at that point you probably said, ‘Listen, I think that is probably enough for me’.”


The tale of Arrichion of Phigaleia neatly expresses why, for the Greeks, this was one of the most hotly anticipated events on the Ancient Olympic programme.


Caught in a terrible stranglehold, Arrichion seized the foot of his opponent and, with the last of his strength, crushed it, dislocating the ankle. Unable to bear the pain, the unnamed man raised his index finger to signal submission. At the very same moment Arrichion gasped his last breath. He was posthumously awarded the victory because his rival had surrendered.


“The Greeks were willing to tolerate a much higher level of violence in sports than we are for the most part,” Christesen explained. “This goes back in part to the issue that people who were athletes tended to be soldiers and vice-versa. So there was, in some sense, a habituation to violence.


“You were expected to be ready to do that sort of thing on the battlefield, so there was less squeamishness about doing it during sports.”


Seven athletes won the heavy combat double of wrestling and pankration at the same Games, including the unfortunate Arrichion. But Theagenes of Thasos is the ultimate symbol of this brutal and wildly popular sport.


Born to a priest in the temple of Herakles on the island of Thasos, the locals came to believe Theagenes’ true father was the god Herakles himself. Famous from the moment he tore a bronze statue from its base in the square in Thasos and carried it home aged just nine, Theagenes went on to win the boxing at the 75th Olympiad (480BC) and the pankration at the 76th. Subsequently, he toured the Mediterranean basin reportedly winning more than 1400 victory wreaths. A life-size statue of the man stood in Olympia itself.


The nature of the sport naturally encouraged legends to grow up around its fearless heroes. None more so than for Polydamas of Skotoussa. The Olympic champion in 408BC is said to have killed lions with his bare hands, pulled the hoof off a ferocious and furious bull and brought a speeding chariot to a standstill with just one hand.


As an amused Christesen points out, there was one other hugely beneficial outcome to this obsession with heroic deeds and brutal one-to-one combat.


“The Greeks invented sports medicine, probably in part because of all the injuries all the time,” he said.


“They became experts in trying to solve injuries incurred during sport.”


        
    

    
        
            Other sports
                
        

        
            Prev
        

        
            Next
        

        

    
        
            
            Boxing
        
    

    
        
            
            Chariot racing
        
    

    
        
            
            Long jump, Javlin, Discus
        
    

    
        
            
            Running
        
    

    
        
            
            Wrestling
        
    
        
    

    
    



back to top
    
    
            
                
            
        
            
                
                
                
                    
International Olympic Committee                    
                
            
            

                        
                            
                                International Olympic Committee
                            
                                
                                    Principles and Mission
Organisation
Events calendar
Careers
IOC Publications

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Explore
                            
                                
                                    Athletes
Olympic Games
Olympic Movement
TOP
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Beyond the Games
                            
                                
                                    Fight Against Doping
Gender Equality
Legacy
Refugees
Sustainability

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Media
                            
                                
                                    Press releases
Statements 
Media Accreditation
News
Subscribe to press releases
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                More Olympic sites
                            
                                
                                    Olympics.com
Museum
Athlete 365
Olympic Studies Centre
Tokyo 2020
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Information
                            
                                
                                    Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Privacy Policy 
Terms of Service 
 FAQs
About us 
Contact us 


                                
                        
            
            
                
© 2021 International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.                
                
                    Follow us
                
                
                                
                                
                
            
        
        
            
                
                
            
        
    
    

    



    
    
    


