


    
    
    The all-time greats of the Ancient Olympic Games

    
    

        
            
    
    
            
        
    
                
            
            
                
        
        
        
                
                        
            

    
    
    
    






    































    
    










    

                              

    
    
    
            
    
    
    
        
            
                
                    

                        
                            
                                
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                        
                                            
                                                IOC
                                                

Principles and Missions

    Mission
    Olympic values
    Olympic rings
    Olympic Charter
    Olympic motto
    Olympic anthem
    Olympic Agenda 2020
    Olympic Agenda 2020+5



Organisation

    President
    Members
    Executive Board
    Commissions
    Sessions
    Congresses
    Administration
    Careers
    Events
    Olympic House
    Publications



IOC History

    Pierre de Coubertin
    Ancient Games



Finance

    Funding
    Licencing
    Ticketing
    Suppliers
    Philatelic and Numismatic

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Games
                                                

Olympic Games

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    Los Angeles 2028
    Brisbane 2032
    Past Olympic Games
    Future Host Election
    Past Host Elections
    New Norm



Youth Olympic Games

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Olympic Legacy

    Legacy through youth
    Candidature Legacies



                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Athletes
                                                


    Athletes' community
    Educational Tools
    Fight Against Doping
    Healthy Body Image
    Medical Research
    Safe Sport

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Movement
                                                


  
        National Olympic Committees
        NOC Associations
        International Sports Federations
       Associations of International Sport Federations
       Organising Committees for the Olympic Games
       The Olympic Partners programme
      Broadcasters
      Governing Bodies
  


                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Beyond the Games
                                                


  
      Art, Culture and Heritage
      Education
      Gender Equality in Sport
 Human Rights
      Integrity
      Olympic Day
Olympic Solidarity
      Peace &amp; development
      Refugees
Sport and Active Society
      Sustainability
      Young Leaders
  

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Media
                                                


    Press releases
    IOC Statements 
    Media Accreditation
    Event Calendar

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                News
                                                

International Olympic Committee

    IOC News
    IOC Statements
    Olympic Agenda
    Olympic Highlights
    Press Releases
    Olympic Studies Centre 



Olympic Games 

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    LA 2028
    

    Youth Olympic Games
    

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Beyond the Games

    Culture and heritage
    Fight against doping 
    Gender equality
    Legacy 
    Refugee Olympic Team
    Sustainability 



TOP

    Airbnb
    Alibaba
    Allianz
    Atos
    Bridgestone
    Coca-Cola
    Dow
    Intel
    Omega
    Panasonic
    P&amp;G
    Samsung
    Toyota
    Visa

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Documents
                                                


    International Olympic Committee
    Olympic Games
    Athletes
    Olympic Movement
    Beyond the Games
    Media

                                                
                                            
                                        
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympics
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Museum
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Athlete 365
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Studies Centre
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Refuge Foundation
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Beijing 2022
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Shop
                                                    
                                                
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    English
                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                

©2021 
                            
                                
                                    

International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.
                                
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
            
        
    

    




    
        
    
        
            
                Boxing
            


        

            
                
            
    

    
        

            

Honour rules despite tough nature of boxing at Ancient Games


With no weight classifications, no scoring system, no time limit and death a real possibility, boxing at the Ancient Olympic Games appears to have been a brutal and barbaric affair. But in reality, honour, respect and fair play were always at the fulcrum of this noble art. 
 


It is no accident that Diagoras of Rhodes was one of the most celebrated pugilists of ancient times. The victor at the 79th Olympiad in 464BC is said to have never ducked, stooped, or sought to evade a single punch. Instead the crowd favourite stood face on and took all that his opponent could throw at him while searching for his own knockout blow.



This sense of dignity is one that modern Olympians recognise.


“You know that once someone has got to the Olympic Games they are of a certain standard, so you just have that instant respect for them and their craft,” said Lawrence Okolie, who fought for Great Britain as a heavyweight at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games before turning pro in 2017. 


“When you box in the Olympics there is hardly any trash talking, there are hardly any dirty stare-offs. It’s just mutual respect, mutual love. Because you have to respect someone who loves something you love also.”


In what is perhaps a less entertaining but no less honourable manner, Melankomas of Caria became a great favourite of ancient commentators for his infinite skill in not only avoiding punches, but also refusing to strike his opponent. The Olympic champion in AD45 simply ducked, weaved and blocked until his opponent fell down in exhaustion, and no doubt exasperation. 


With no time limits, and a break only if and when the referee and both fighters agreed, Melankomas was said to have once fought, or not fought as the case was, for two days solid without ever lowering his guard. 


The fact line-ups were decided by lots drawn at the beginning of each Ancient Games increased the chances of long, drawn-out contests with smaller, agile men avoiding dangerous but cumbersome opponents. The frustration of chasing an elusive fighter is something 6ft4in Okolie knows well. 


“I do it in training,” said Okolie of hours spent sparring against nimble opposition. “That is one of the hardest things in boxing. Being punched hard, you can prepare yourself mentally for that. You can get yourself mentally ready for giving and taking damage. But there is nothing like throwing punches and there is no one there.”


The fact that fighters of vastly differing sizes and styles enjoyed success across the span of the Ancient Games owed as much to changes in equipment as it did to developments in the sport. At first, Olympic boxers wore soft ox-leather woven around their hands and wrists. This encouraged quick, agile attacking boxing. Through Roman times and beyond, however, the leather became harder and at times lead studs were even added. Naturally, contests became focused on defence, with slower, heavier athletes flourishing. 


Strength came to the fore and was a quality held in huge regard by fans. Stories abound of feats of semi-divine muscle-power, with the heroes of many such tales rising into the realms of myth. Glaucus of Carystus is one such engaging character. A farmhand, Glaucus is said to have been found by his father hammering a ploughshare into a plough with his bare fists. On the spot the old man pledged to take him to the next Olympiad, which he duly did. The youngster reached the final but, badly bruised and battered, he is said to have been down and out until his dad shouted at him to “remember the ploughshare”. Glaucus looked up and immediately knocked his opponent out, taking the wreath. 



Any such advantage, mental or physical, that could be gained was crucial. If two fighters could not, however, be separated, there was one, radical answer left. Both men could agree to seek klimax. This was a system whereby first one fighter and then the other was allowed a free, unencumbered shot at his opponent. The drawing of lots to see who went first was more than a little critical. 


“Oh my goodness man. No. That is… No. You don’t want that,” was Okolie’s reaction to being told of this method of ending a fight.


It was an unforgiving finale but one that the honourable Diagoras, whose three sons all won Olympic boxing titles, no doubt felt was fitting for his sport.  While modern professional boxing involves at times brash, outlandish noise, far removed from the ideals of one-to-one combat, it is worth noting that Okolie, who was clinically obese as a teenager, was inspired to take up the sport by the example of an Olympic legend, close in spirit to Diagoras himself. 



“You look at Anthony Joshua (London 2012 heavyweight champion) as an athlete and a role model,” Okolie said. “You watch how he has moved as a professional, no trash talking, no nothing. He sold out Wembley Arena (for his world title unification fight against Wladimir Klitschko in April 2017) with his opponent without any bad words about each other. None. 


“You are just letting your craft do your talking for you.” 



        
    

    
        
            Other sports
                
        

        
            Prev
        

        
            Next
        

        

    
        
            
            Long jump, Javlin, Discus
        
    

    
        
            
            Chariot racing
        
    

    
        
            
            Pankration
        
    

    
        
            
            Running
        
    

    
        
            
            Wrestling
        
    
        
    

    
    



back to top
    
    
            
                
            
        
            
                
                
                
                    
International Olympic Committee                    
                
            
            

                        
                            
                                International Olympic Committee
                            
                                
                                    Principles and Mission
Organisation
Events calendar
Careers
IOC Publications

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Explore
                            
                                
                                    Athletes
Olympic Games
Olympic Movement
TOP
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Beyond the Games
                            
                                
                                    Fight Against Doping
Gender Equality
Legacy
Refugees
Sustainability

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Media
                            
                                
                                    Press releases
Statements 
Media Accreditation
News
Subscribe to press releases
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                More Olympic sites
                            
                                
                                    Olympics.com
Museum
Athlete 365
Olympic Studies Centre
Tokyo 2020
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Information
                            
                                
                                    Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Privacy Policy 
Terms of Service 
 FAQs
About us 
Contact us 


                                
                        
            
            
                
© 2021 International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.                
                
                    Follow us
                
                
                                
                                
                
            
        
        
            
                
                
            
        
    
    

    



    
    
    


