


    
    
    The all-time greats of the Ancient Olympic Games

    
    

        
            
    
    
            
        
    
                
            
            
                
        
        
        
                
                        
            

    
    
    
    






    































    
    










    

                              

    
    
    
            
    
    
    
        
            
                
                    

                        
                            
                                
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                        
                                            
                                                IOC
                                                

Principles and Missions

    Mission
    Olympic values
    Olympic rings
    Olympic Charter
    Olympic motto
    Olympic anthem
    Olympic Agenda 2020
    Olympic Agenda 2020+5



Organisation

    President
    Members
    Executive Board
    Commissions
    Sessions
    Congresses
    Administration
    Careers
    Events
    Olympic House
    Publications



IOC History

    Pierre de Coubertin
    Ancient Games



Finance

    Funding
    Licencing
    Ticketing
    Suppliers
    Philatelic and Numismatic

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Games
                                                

Olympic Games

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    Los Angeles 2028
    Brisbane 2032
    Past Olympic Games
    Future Host Election
    Past Host Elections
    New Norm



Youth Olympic Games

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Olympic Legacy

    Legacy through youth
    Candidature Legacies



                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Athletes
                                                


    Athletes' community
    Educational Tools
    Fight Against Doping
    Healthy Body Image
    Medical Research
    Safe Sport

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Movement
                                                


  
        National Olympic Committees
        NOC Associations
        International Sports Federations
       Associations of International Sport Federations
       Organising Committees for the Olympic Games
       The Olympic Partners programme
      Broadcasters
      Governing Bodies
  


                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Beyond the Games
                                                


  
      Art, Culture and Heritage
      Education
      Gender Equality in Sport
 Human Rights
      Integrity
      Olympic Day
Olympic Solidarity
      Peace &amp; development
      Refugees
Sport and Active Society
      Sustainability
      Young Leaders
  

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Media
                                                


    Press releases
    IOC Statements 
    Media Accreditation
    Event Calendar

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                News
                                                

International Olympic Committee

    IOC News
    IOC Statements
    Olympic Agenda
    Olympic Highlights
    Press Releases
    Olympic Studies Centre 



Olympic Games 

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    LA 2028
    

    Youth Olympic Games
    

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Beyond the Games

    Culture and heritage
    Fight against doping 
    Gender equality
    Legacy 
    Refugee Olympic Team
    Sustainability 



TOP

    Airbnb
    Alibaba
    Allianz
    Atos
    Bridgestone
    Coca-Cola
    Dow
    Intel
    Omega
    Panasonic
    P&amp;G
    Samsung
    Toyota
    Visa

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Documents
                                                


    International Olympic Committee
    Olympic Games
    Athletes
    Olympic Movement
    Beyond the Games
    Media

                                                
                                            
                                        
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympics
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Museum
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Athlete 365
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Studies Centre
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Refuge Foundation
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Beijing 2022
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Shop
                                                    
                                                
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    English
                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                

©2021 
                            
                                
                                    

International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.
                                
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
            
        
    

    




    
        
    
        
            
                Long jump, Javlin, Discus
            


        

            
                
            
    

    
        

            

Ancient field event techniques make “perfect sense” 


From flute music to slingshot mechanics, the long jump, javelin and discus at the Ancient Olympic Games stand out for their intricacy and innovation. Gold medal-winning coach Toni Minichiello is impressed by what he hears. 
 


The long jump, javelin and discus are, of course, familiar Olympic disciplines, but their presentation at the Ancient Games varied significantly from that which is on show today – and not just because all the competitors were naked and covered in oil.



The long jumpers hit the track at Olympia accompanied by the calming and peaceful, if slightly unlikely sound of flute music. No doubt in a zen-like state, the athletes would then stand at the top of a reduced runway holding a large stone or lead weight in each hand. Forward momentum was first achieved through a short, powerful run up, during which they swung the weights back and forth. At the take-off point competitors would thrust the weights back vigorously before stretching their arms back out in front of them to meet their feet. At the apex of the jump, arms would be flung backwards again, using the weights as counter-thrusts. Finally, just before they hit the earth, the athletes would discard the weights to ensure their hard-earned momentum was maintained. 



“It makes perfect sense,” said Toni Minichiello, long-time coach to London 2012 Olympic Games gold medal-winning British heptathlete, Jessica Ennis-Hill. 


“It is about generating horizontal force and then converting that force into lift. And those additional weights would give you more lift and carry more speed across the initial point of take-off.” 



The stones varied in weight from 1.4-2.0kg to suit the different sized athletes. With smooth grooves in them to help grip, the shapes also varied, from rectangular, to semi-circular and then hemispherical and elliptical. 



While Minichiello is yet to utilise the weight method in training, he does see the value of any technique that can give an athlete the feel of jumping further. 



“We long jump off a board,” he said. “We put a board or a platform at the point of take-off so you take off a little bit higher, therefore you get more lift off the floor, which gives you more time in the air, which means you can practise flight technique, landing positions, so on.” 



The gentle music also hits home with the award-winning coach. 



“There are lots of studies done on the effect of music,” he said. “It is a distraction tool, a motivation tool. Certainly a lot of athletes use music (nowadays) when they are warming up, to get in the right frame of mind.” 



It is not clear how far ancient Olympians jumped thanks to these helpful tools, given that the Greeks were solely interested in victory. However, there are two accounts of individuals leaping impossible distances, including the 664BC Olympic champion Chionis of Sparta clearing 52ft/15.8m. These, for a time, gave rise to the idea that the triple jump may have featured at some Games. However, most scholars have now decided this not to be true and the mythical distances to be down to understandable embellishment. 



Wooden, the height of a man and with one end pointed, the javelin was the most clearly militaristic event on the entire programme at the Ancient Games. While most did not have an iron or bronze point, the similarity to the spear, which almost every competitor would have handled during his life, is clear. 



The key difference to the modern javelin was the use of a leather strap which the athletes would loop around the javelin’s centre of gravity. Latching two fingers into the loop, competitors would send the javelin skyward using much the same, side-on technique as employed by today’s Olympians. 



“It is a slingshot really. It makes perfect sense,” Minichiello said. “We use heavy and light javelins (in training) for the same reason. If you can throw a lighter implement it speeds up your movement pattern and heavy implements develop a bit more specific strength.”



Like the javelin and the long jump, the discus was part of the pentathlon, but, as the only discipline on the entire Olympic programme not to have any obvious link to everyday life or warfare, it is a slight anomaly. 



Despite this, the discus has a long tradition in the Greek world, first mentioned by Homer. Strangely, it also has a close connection with death in Greek mythology. Both Apollo and Perseus accidentally killed loved ones with errant throws. 



Often engraved with picturesque scenes or poetry, discuses were made first of stone and later of iron, lead or even bronze. It seems that the set weight of the discus varied from Games to Games, with discoveries ranging from weights of 1.3-6.6kg and diameters of 17-32cm. Launched in a similar manner to that employed by modern athletes, there is a record of Phayllos of Kroton throwing 95ft/28.9m. 



All three of these field sports required rhythm, precision and power, qualities highly valued by the Ancient Greeks. 


        
    

    
        
            Other sports
                
        

        
            Prev
        

        
            Next
        

        

    
        
            
            Boxing
        
    

    
        
            
            Chariot racing
        
    

    
        
            
            Pankration
        
    

    
        
            
            Running
        
    

    
        
            
            Wrestling
        
    
        
    

    
    



back to top
    
    
            
                
            
        
            
                
                
                
                    
International Olympic Committee                    
                
            
            

                        
                            
                                International Olympic Committee
                            
                                
                                    Principles and Mission
Organisation
Events calendar
Careers
IOC Publications

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Explore
                            
                                
                                    Athletes
Olympic Games
Olympic Movement
TOP
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Beyond the Games
                            
                                
                                    Fight Against Doping
Gender Equality
Legacy
Refugees
Sustainability

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Media
                            
                                
                                    Press releases
Statements 
Media Accreditation
News
Subscribe to press releases
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                More Olympic sites
                            
                                
                                    Olympics.com
Museum
Athlete 365
Olympic Studies Centre
Tokyo 2020
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Information
                            
                                
                                    Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Privacy Policy 
Terms of Service 
 FAQs
About us 
Contact us 


                                
                        
            
            
                
© 2021 International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.                
                
                    Follow us
                
                
                                
                                
                
            
        
        
            
                
                
            
        
    
    

    



    
    
    


