


    
    
    The all-time greats of the Ancient Olympic Games

    
    

        
            
    
    
            
        
    
                
            
            
                
        
        
        
                
                        
            

    
    
    
    






    































    
    










    

                              

    
    
    
            
    
    
    
        
            
                
                    

                        
                            
                                
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                        
                                            
                                                IOC
                                                

Principles and Missions

    Mission
    Olympic values
    Olympic rings
    Olympic Charter
    Olympic motto
    Olympic anthem
    Olympic Agenda 2020
    Olympic Agenda 2020+5



Organisation

    President
    Members
    Executive Board
    Commissions
    Sessions
    Congresses
    Administration
    Careers
    Events
    Olympic House
    Publications



IOC History

    Pierre de Coubertin
    Ancient Games



Finance

    Funding
    Licencing
    Ticketing
    Suppliers
    Philatelic and Numismatic

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Games
                                                

Olympic Games

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    Los Angeles 2028
    Brisbane 2032
    Past Olympic Games
    Future Host Election
    Past Host Elections
    New Norm



Youth Olympic Games

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Olympic Legacy

    Legacy through youth
    Candidature Legacies



                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Athletes
                                                


    Athletes' community
    Educational Tools
    Fight Against Doping
    Healthy Body Image
    Medical Research
    Safe Sport

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Movement
                                                


  
        National Olympic Committees
        NOC Associations
        International Sports Federations
       Associations of International Sport Federations
       Organising Committees for the Olympic Games
       The Olympic Partners programme
      Broadcasters
      Governing Bodies
  


                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Beyond the Games
                                                


  
      Art, Culture and Heritage
      Education
      Gender Equality in Sport
 Human Rights
      Integrity
      Olympic Day
Olympic Solidarity
      Peace &amp; development
      Refugees
Sport and Active Society
      Sustainability
      Young Leaders
  

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Media
                                                


    Press releases
    IOC Statements 
    Media Accreditation
    Event Calendar

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                News
                                                

International Olympic Committee

    IOC News
    IOC Statements
    Olympic Agenda
    Olympic Highlights
    Press Releases
    Olympic Studies Centre 



Olympic Games 

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    LA 2028
    

    Youth Olympic Games
    

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Beyond the Games

    Culture and heritage
    Fight against doping 
    Gender equality
    Legacy 
    Refugee Olympic Team
    Sustainability 



TOP

    Airbnb
    Alibaba
    Allianz
    Atos
    Bridgestone
    Coca-Cola
    Dow
    Intel
    Omega
    Panasonic
    P&amp;G
    Samsung
    Toyota
    Visa

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Documents
                                                


    International Olympic Committee
    Olympic Games
    Athletes
    Olympic Movement
    Beyond the Games
    Media

                                                
                                            
                                        
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympics
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Museum
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Athlete 365
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Studies Centre
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Refuge Foundation
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Beijing 2022
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Shop
                                                    
                                                
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    English
                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                

©2021 
                            
                                
                                    

International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.
                                
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
            
        
    

    




    
        
    
        
            
                Running
            


        

            
                
            
    

    
        

            

‘Run Leonidas Run’: meet the stars of the track at the Ancient Olympic Games


From completing three marathons in one day – post Olympic title – to chasing down a live hare, the achievements of the running idols at Olympia were remarkable.  



Leonidas of Rhodes is not just the greatest runner of the Ancient Olympic Games, he is arguably the most impressive Olympian of all-time. The man’s feats were so extraordinary that he was deified by his countrymen in his own lifetime, and, were it not for the hard, indisputable historical evidence, his records would likely be dismissed as embellishment at best.


Undefeated, Leonidas won both premier sprint events and the race in armour at four consecutive Olympic Games, running 164BC to 152BC. Twelve victories in twelve years, with the final three coming at the age of 36 – even Usain Bolt cannot match that.


Without the benefit of detailed recordings, it is hard to pin down the secret of Leonidas’ success. But Toni Minichiello, the world-renowned coach who guided Jessica Ennis-Hill to the London 2012 heptathlon gold medal, is certain the man from Rhodes must have possessed several crucial ingredients.


“The reason people reach the highest level is that they can consistently produce a movement pattern that produces a level of performance – and technique leads to consistency,” Minichiello explained.


“And if you take the physical side out of it, it’s obviously the mental side, the determination, the drive, the enthusiasm, the enjoyment… The lack of feeling entitled, the fact you keep moving forwards, keep driving yourself.”


The stadion, which Leonidas won four times, was the oldest and most prestigious event at the Ancient Games. The only race at the first 13 editions, it comprised one length of the stadium, around 193m in Olympia’s case - the distance the hero Hercules could, according to legend, run on a single breath


Every subsequent race was a multiple of a stadion, a stade. The second sprint, the diaulos, was introduced in 724BC and consisted of two stades, bringing the turning post into the equation. With collisions inevitable, an early lead was vital.


At first the start and finish were marked solely by lines in the earth but by the fifth century BC a permanent structure had been installed with a fine rope fitted. A long row of narrow stone slabs with parallel grooves for feet and upright posts to separate runners followed. At the height of the Games there was room for around 20 athletes in each race. Starting positions were decided by the drawing of lots and false starts were met with corporal punishment.


A significant majority of the lauded sprint stars, particularly in the first few centuries of the Games, were shepherds or farmhands. For example, stadion victor in 596BC, Polymestor of Miletos was reported to have been noted as a talent after being seen catching a live hare in his bare hands while watching his flock of goats.


Coach Minichiello thinks he knows why a man who spent his days chasing animals down a mountain might end up an Olympic star.


“Over-speed is what you want,” said Minichiello. “People (modern athletes) sometimes run downhill to get that over-speed (in training). The idea is that it affects how quick you can send neural signals from the brain to the muscles.


“We (he and his athletes) use rubber bands that pull you at faster speeds than you can run. What you are trying to do is get your legs turning over faster than they have ever turned over before.”


Thanks to the fabled origins of the marathon, long distance runners have garnered just as much, if not more, coverage than their sprinting counterparts.


The story of Ageas at the 113th Olympiad (328BC) is typical. In the morning he won the dolichos, the major distance race habitually comprising 20 stades (around 3550m), and that afternoon he ran 100km-plus home to Argos to tell his family and friends about his victory. If anything, Polites of Keramos took this a step further. In one morning at the 212th Olympiad (AD69) he won the stadion, the diaulos and the dolichos.


Every athlete, from Polites to Leonidas, ran naked and barefoot at the Ancient Games. While Minichiello does not get his charges to take their clothes off, he does see the wisdom of removing their shoes.


“You need to exercise the under-sole of your foot in some way,” he said. “Walking in shoes has meant that people’s arches and the muscles in the base of the foot are not as well exercised as they may have been.


“We (Ennis-Hill and he) did a fair amount of work in sandpits, doing various drills to exercise the base of the feet, hopping and stepping through sand. It develops the ankle stability and the neural reception because at speed you put your foot down and then (you need) the ability to be able to control your foot and your ankle, to change direction even though you maybe buffeted by winds or slipperiness.”


Despite being the final of the big four running events to be added (in 520BC), the race in armour quickly became a prominent event. At first participants were clad in a helmet and a piece of armour called a greave and carried a shield. But the greaves were swiftly dropped and by the third century BC runners had just a heavy shield on their arm. Traditionally two stades, it was a sprint full of pomp and splendour, with personal insignias decorating the shields.


Just as he was in the stadion and the diaulos, the incomparable Leonidas became the king of this Games-closing race.


        
    

    
        
            Other sports
                
        

        
            Prev
        

        
            Next
        

        

    
        
            
            Boxing
        
    

    
        
            
            Chariot racing
        
    

    
        
            
            Long jump, Javlin, Discus
        
    

    
        
            
            Pankration
        
    

    
        
            
            Wrestling
        
    
        
    

    
    



back to top
    
    
            
                
            
        
            
                
                
                
                    
International Olympic Committee                    
                
            
            

                        
                            
                                International Olympic Committee
                            
                                
                                    Principles and Mission
Organisation
Events calendar
Careers
IOC Publications

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Explore
                            
                                
                                    Athletes
Olympic Games
Olympic Movement
TOP
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Beyond the Games
                            
                                
                                    Fight Against Doping
Gender Equality
Legacy
Refugees
Sustainability

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Media
                            
                                
                                    Press releases
Statements 
Media Accreditation
News
Subscribe to press releases
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                More Olympic sites
                            
                                
                                    Olympics.com
Museum
Athlete 365
Olympic Studies Centre
Tokyo 2020
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Information
                            
                                
                                    Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Privacy Policy 
Terms of Service 
 FAQs
About us 
Contact us 


                                
                        
            
            
                
© 2021 International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.                
                
                    Follow us
                
                
                                
                                
                
            
        
        
            
                
                
            
        
    
    

    



    
    
    


