


    
    
    The all-time greats of the Ancient Olympic Games

    
    

        
            
    
    
            
        
    
                
            
            
                
        
        
        
                
                        
            

    
    
    
    






    































    
    










    

                              

    
    
    
            
    
    
    
        
            
                
                    

                        
                            
                                
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                        
                                            
                                                IOC
                                                

Principles and Missions

    Mission
    Olympic values
    Olympic rings
    Olympic Charter
    Olympic motto
    Olympic anthem
    Olympic Agenda 2020
    Olympic Agenda 2020+5



Organisation

    President
    Members
    Executive Board
    Commissions
    Sessions
    Congresses
    Administration
    Careers
    Events
    Olympic House
    Publications



IOC History

    Pierre de Coubertin
    Ancient Games



Finance

    Funding
    Licencing
    Ticketing
    Suppliers
    Philatelic and Numismatic

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Games
                                                

Olympic Games

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    Los Angeles 2028
    Brisbane 2032
    Past Olympic Games
    Future Host Election
    Past Host Elections
    New Norm



Youth Olympic Games

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Olympic Legacy

    Legacy through youth
    Candidature Legacies



                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Athletes
                                                


    Athletes' community
    Educational Tools
    Fight Against Doping
    Healthy Body Image
    Medical Research
    Safe Sport

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Movement
                                                


  
        National Olympic Committees
        NOC Associations
        International Sports Federations
       Associations of International Sport Federations
       Organising Committees for the Olympic Games
       The Olympic Partners programme
      Broadcasters
      Governing Bodies
  


                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Beyond the Games
                                                


  
      Art, Culture and Heritage
      Education
      Gender Equality in Sport
 Human Rights
      Integrity
      Olympic Day
Olympic Solidarity
      Peace &amp; development
      Refugees
Sport and Active Society
      Sustainability
      Young Leaders
  

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Media
                                                


    Press releases
    IOC Statements 
    Media Accreditation
    Event Calendar

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                News
                                                

International Olympic Committee

    IOC News
    IOC Statements
    Olympic Agenda
    Olympic Highlights
    Press Releases
    Olympic Studies Centre 



Olympic Games 

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    LA 2028
    

    Youth Olympic Games
    

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Beyond the Games

    Culture and heritage
    Fight against doping 
    Gender equality
    Legacy 
    Refugee Olympic Team
    Sustainability 



TOP

    Airbnb
    Alibaba
    Allianz
    Atos
    Bridgestone
    Coca-Cola
    Dow
    Intel
    Omega
    Panasonic
    P&amp;G
    Samsung
    Toyota
    Visa

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Documents
                                                


    International Olympic Committee
    Olympic Games
    Athletes
    Olympic Movement
    Beyond the Games
    Media

                                                
                                            
                                        
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympics
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Museum
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Athlete 365
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Studies Centre
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Refuge Foundation
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Beijing 2022
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Shop
                                                    
                                                
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    English
                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                

©2021 
                            
                                
                                    

International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.
                                
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
            
        
    

    




    
        
    
        
            
                Wrestling
            


        

            
                
            
    

    
        

            

Wrestling rules at the Ancient Olympic Games


From lifting live bulls to tearing trees apart with their bare hands, wrestlers were the wildly popular heroes of the Ancient Olympic Games. With an unrivalled prominence, the sport basked in its glory days. 


As participants in the oldest and most widely practised sport on the Ancient Olympic Games programme, wrestlers at Olympia received great levels of attention and adulation. With the vast majority of fans likely to have passed through wrestling schools themselves, it was the ancient equivalent of modern-day football.


From carrying live bulls around the stadium on his shoulders to breaking bits of string by popping the veins on his head, more words were written about six-time Olympic champion wrestler Milon of Croton than any other ancient Olympic athlete.


Part of the pentathlon, as well as an event in its own right, wrestling was innately connected to warfare. Naked and covered in oil, combatants would contest one of two disciplines. ‘Upright wrestling’, conducted in a sandy pit, required one wrestler to throw the other to the ground three times. In contrast, ‘rolling’ or ‘ground’ wrestling was only over when one man was so exhausted further resistance was impossible. Defeat in this case was signalled by the raising of a hand with one or two fingers extended.


Rules were limited to the forbidding of biting and of attacking the genitals. Broken bones were a regular occurrence, with wrestlers often snapping fingers or even arms to escape holds. In fact, two-time champion Leontiskos of Messene became famous for employing just this tactic.


The savage nature of bouts was no doubt one of a number of reasons why wrestling was considered such a worthy test of athletes at the Ancient Games. And while that raw brutality has been left in the past, Wiebe believes her chosen sport retains the qualities that made it so popular.


Erica Wiebe, the Rio 2016 Olympic Games gold medallist in women’s 75kg freestyle, is one of just a few modern wrestlers to have some idea of how her acclaimed predecessors would have felt at the Ancient Olympic Games.


“I don’t think there is another sport like it. It is a true display of character, perseverance, resilience and grit,” she said.


Naturally, tales of almost inhuman levels of strength abound among accounts of the Ancient Games. While Amesinas of Barka trained by wrestling a bull, Isidoros of Alexandria, is reported to have never once fallen in competition.


Australian Liam Neyland, multiple junior Oceania Championship winner and Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games hopeful, knows what it is like to come up against such pure power.


“For the Oceania (2017 Championships – his first as a senior), I was facing a New Zealander,” Neyland said. “Normally I am one of the strongest for my weight (65kg) but I swear this guy wasn’t human. He had so much body strength, it felt like I was trying to move a boulder.”


The famous Milon of Croton falls firmly into this category. A student of philosopher and mathematician Pythagoras, the huge wrestler is reported to have held up the ceiling in his teacher’s house during an earthquake, allowing everyone to escape unharmed. A statue in the Louvre Museum, Paris, depicts how ultimately the big man’s strength was his undoing. Caught by a tree in the wild, having tried to split its withered stump with his bare hands, Milon was eaten by wolves.


Despite the prominence of power, technique and cunning have always played a crucial role in wrestling.


“I actually took an Ancient Rome and sport class at university,” Wiebe revealed. “And I know there are a lot of legends about the strength of wrestlers, but there were also some (stories of) tricky wrestlers and I think I would fit into that category.”


Perhaps there is some Italian ancestry in the Canadian’s bloodline – in ancient times the Sicilians were known as crafty wrestlers, while the Spartans were renowned for their honour and the people from Argos were famed for their skill.


Another factor that has not altered in the centuries separating Milon of Croton and Neyland of Queensland is the capacity of wrestlers to consume quite unfathomable amounts of food and drink. While Milon slaughtered a bull in the middle of the stadium at Olympia and ate every piece in front of the baying crowd, Neyland has, to date, been a little less conspicuous.


“I have been known as a bottomless bag,” the 21-year-old said. “I ate a kilo of meat in a burger in under an hour. I won one of my coaches a bottle of wine.”


Milon would have approved. He is reported to have washed down his bull with nine litres of ancient Greece’s finest red wine.

        
    

    
        
            Other sports
                
        

        
            Prev
        

        
            Next
        

        

    
        
            
            Boxing
        
    

    
        
            
            Chariot racing
        
    

    
        
            
            Long jump, Javlin, Discus
        
    

    
        
            
            Pankration
        
    

    
        
            
            Running
        
    
        
    

    
    



back to top
    
    
            
                
            
        
            
                
                
                
                    
International Olympic Committee                    
                
            
            

                        
                            
                                International Olympic Committee
                            
                                
                                    Principles and Mission
Organisation
Events calendar
Careers
IOC Publications

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Explore
                            
                                
                                    Athletes
Olympic Games
Olympic Movement
TOP
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Beyond the Games
                            
                                
                                    Fight Against Doping
Gender Equality
Legacy
Refugees
Sustainability

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Media
                            
                                
                                    Press releases
Statements 
Media Accreditation
News
Subscribe to press releases
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                More Olympic sites
                            
                                
                                    Olympics.com
Museum
Athlete 365
Olympic Studies Centre
Tokyo 2020
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Information
                            
                                
                                    Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Privacy Policy 
Terms of Service 
 FAQs
About us 
Contact us 


                                
                        
            
            
                
© 2021 International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.                
                
                    Follow us
                
                
                                
                                
                
            
        
        
            
                
                
            
        
    
    

    



    
    
    


