


    
    
    Careers 

    
    

        
            
    
    
            
        
    
                
            
            
                
        
        
        
                
                        
            

    
    
    
    






    































    
    










    

                              

    
    
    
            
    
    
    
        
            
                
                    

                        
                            
                                
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                        
                                            
                                                IOC
                                                

Principles and Missions

    Mission
    Olympic values
    Olympic rings
    Olympic Charter
    Olympic motto
    Olympic anthem
    Olympic Agenda 2020
    Olympic Agenda 2020+5



Organisation

    President
    Members
    Executive Board
    Commissions
    Sessions
    Congresses
    Administration
    Careers
    Events
    Olympic House
    Publications



IOC History

    Pierre de Coubertin
    Ancient Games



Finance

    Funding
    Licencing
    Ticketing
    Suppliers
    Philatelic and Numismatic

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Games
                                                

Olympic Games

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    Los Angeles 2028
    Brisbane 2032
    Past Olympic Games
    Future Host Election
    Past Host Elections
    New Norm



Youth Olympic Games

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Olympic Legacy

    Legacy through youth
    Candidature Legacies



                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Athletes
                                                


    Athletes' community
    Educational Tools
    Fight Against Doping
    Healthy Body Image
    Medical Research
    Safe Sport

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Olympic Movement
                                                


  
        National Olympic Committees
        NOC Associations
        International Sports Federations
       Associations of International Sport Federations
       Organising Committees for the Olympic Games
       The Olympic Partners programme
      Broadcasters
      Governing Bodies
  


                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Beyond the Games
                                                


  
      Art, Culture and Heritage
      Education
      Gender Equality in Sport
 Human Rights
      Integrity
      Olympic Day
Olympic Solidarity
      Peace &amp; development
      Refugees
Sport and Active Society
      Sustainability
      Young Leaders
  

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Media
                                                


    Press releases
    IOC Statements 
    Media Accreditation
    Event Calendar

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                News
                                                

International Olympic Committee

    IOC News
    IOC Statements
    Olympic Agenda
    Olympic Highlights
    Press Releases
    Olympic Studies Centre 



Olympic Games 

    Tokyo 2020
    Beijing 2022
    Paris 2024
    Milano Cortina 2026
    LA 2028
    

    Youth Olympic Games
    

    Gangwon 2024
    Dakar 2026



Beyond the Games

    Culture and heritage
    Fight against doping 
    Gender equality
    Legacy 
    Refugee Olympic Team
    Sustainability 



TOP

    Airbnb
    Alibaba
    Allianz
    Atos
    Bridgestone
    Coca-Cola
    Dow
    Intel
    Omega
    Panasonic
    P&amp;G
    Samsung
    Toyota
    Visa

                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                Documents
                                                


    International Olympic Committee
    Olympic Games
    Athletes
    Olympic Movement
    Beyond the Games
    Media

                                                
                                            
                                        
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympics
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Museum
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Athlete 365
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Studies Centre
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Olympic Refuge Foundation
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Beijing 2022
                                                    
                                                
                                                
                                                    
                                                        Shop
                                                    
                                                
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    English
                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                

©2021 
                            
                                
                                    

International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.
                                
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                        
                    
                
            
        
    

    



    
        
            
                Careers 
            


        

            
                
            
    


    
        
    
        

            JOIN US! 


If you would like to contribute to building a better world through sport, have a look at the current job openings.


A variety of profiles 


The IOC is composed of about 20 entities and departments with specific focus areas and responsibilities offering a wide range of positions: management of the relationship with our stakeholders (International Sports Federations, athletes, National Olympic Committees, TOP Partners, etc.), communication, digital engagement, marketing, cultural and educational programmes and activities, and operations such as finance, legal, corporate events and services (including catering and logistics), technology and information, human resources, and corporate security.


Apprenticeships 


At the IOC, we value learning opportunities for people at the beginning of their career in a sports organisation.


Every year, we offer multiple apprenticeship opportunities for young people in different areas, such as marketing/hospitality, finance and HR. Since 2000, the IOC has hosted and trained 21 apprentices in several different departments. Their youth and enthusiasm bring real added value to the organisation. Their training combines lessons and professional experience, which allows them to develop their knowledge and skills, learn on the job and gain experience of the professional world at a young age.


The IOC supports our young apprentices by offering them the possibility to learn about different sectors in an international environment throughout their apprenticeship. The training normally lasts three years, and the apprentices are required to change units every year, except for certain areas such as cooking.


For the IOC, apprenticeships allow it to maintain a link with local schools in the region and help to train future professionals. For the trainers at the IOC, this is also an opportunity to develop their own skills by taking an objective look at the work they do and to pass on their know-how.


Internships 


We also offer a wide variety of 6- to 12-month internship opportunities in multiple departments across the organisation: Olympic Games, Legal Affairs, Sports, HR, Corporate Events, IT and many more. IOC internships allow for bachelor’s and master’s degree graduates to enter the working world with an opportunity to learn and grow within their respective fields. As an IOC intern, your manager and team will be there to support your development by setting clear objectives for the duration of your internship. They will then create opportunities for you to play a part in the everyday work of the organisation and support you in reaching your goals.


The IOC also has vibrant community of interns and former interns who look out for one another. Each new intern is welcomed into the community and is given a buddy who will act as a big brother/sister and provide guidance and support, especially in those crucial first few months in the organisation.


To find out more about what life is like as an IOC Intern, take a moment to listen to some of our interns talking about their experiences at the IOC.


Career transition for Olympians and elite athletes


Athletes are at the heart of the Olympic Movement, and it is never too early to start thinking about life after an elite sports career. Even if it should be a priority for every athlete, it can be hard to know where to begin. Whether you’re a retired athlete, an athlete nearing retirement, or an athlete considering a dual career – the IOC provides tools to help you figure things out via the Athlete365 platform.


The IOC also provide exclusive job opportunities to Olympians and elite athletes. Stay tuned and view the opportunities.


Find out more about career transition on Athlete365.

        
    

    
    
        Our recruitment process
        
            Learn more
        

    
        




                
            Jobs in Lausanne
        
            
            

Find out about the latest opportunities in our offices based in Lausanne. From trainee positions to full-time positions, each job is listed. Click and take a look!
        
                View all jobs





                
            Jobs in Madrid
        
            
            

Find out more about the opportunities at Olympic Broadcasting Services and Olympic Channel Services, based in Madrid. The jobs are managed by these two respective entities.


View jobs at Olympic Broadcasting Services


View jobs at Olympic Channel Services


        
    




                
            Create job alerts for new opportunities
        
            
            

Here you can register and create your profile, including your CV and cover letter. You can follow our new job opportunities and subscribe to job alerts.
        
                Register here

        
    

        Jobs or volunteer opportunities in organising committees
        
            

Join the Games as a staff member ahead of and during the Games or as a volunteer! Find out here about the opportunities related to the upcoming editions of the Olympic Games and Youth Olympic Games. These positions are all managed by the respective local Organising Committees.


Volunteering programme at Beijing 2022


Opportunities at Paris 2024


Opportunities at Milano Cortina 2026


Opportunities at Los Angeles 2028


More information about Gangwon 2024 and Dakar 2026 coming soon. 
        

        FAQ
        
            Here are some of the answers to the most commonly asked questions about the IOC's recruitment process.
        
        
            Learn more
        




back to top
    
    
            
                
            
        
            
                
                
                
                    
International Olympic Committee                    
                
            
            

                        
                            
                                International Olympic Committee
                            
                                
                                    Principles and Mission
Organisation
Events calendar
Careers
IOC Publications

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Explore
                            
                                
                                    Athletes
Olympic Games
Olympic Movement
TOP
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Beyond the Games
                            
                                
                                    Fight Against Doping
Gender Equality
Legacy
Refugees
Sustainability

                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Media
                            
                                
                                    Press releases
Statements 
Media Accreditation
News
Subscribe to press releases
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                More Olympic sites
                            
                                
                                    Olympics.com
Museum
Athlete 365
Olympic Studies Centre
Tokyo 2020
                                
                        
                        
                            
                                Information
                            
                                
                                    Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Privacy Policy 
Terms of Service 
 FAQs
About us 
Contact us 


                                
                        
            
            
                
© 2021 International Olympic Committee. All Rights Reserved.                
                
                    Follow us
                
                
                                
                                
                
            
        
        
            
                
                
            
        
    
    

    



    
    
    


