



  
    










Twitter's violent threats policy | Twitter Help









  
  


























      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      















  















    
    

    
















































    







  
  
    








  














  






  


















  
    
      
        
          Skip to main content
          
            
              
                
                 
  
  

                
                  Help Center
                
              
            

            
          

          
          
            
          

          
            
          
        
      
    
  




  








  











    
    


































  
    
      
        
          
            
  
  
  
      
      
      
      












  
  
  









  
      
      
      
      


















  
    
      
        
        
          Violent threats policy
        
        
      
    
  





  
      
      
      
      















  
  
          
        
      
    
  
  
  





































  
    
      
        
          
            
  
  
  
      
      
      
      














  Overview

 &nbsp;


March 2019


You may not threaten violence against an individual or a group of people. We also prohibit the glorification of violence.


Healthy conversation is only possible when people feel safe from abuse and don’t resort to using violent language. For this reason, we have a policy against threatening violence on Twitter. We define violent threats as statements of an intent to kill or inflict serious physical harm on a specific person or group of people.&nbsp;




What is in violation of this policy?

 &nbsp;


Under this policy, you can’t state an intention to inflict violence on a specific person or group of people. We define intent to include statements like “I will”, “I’m going to”, or “I plan to”, as well as conditional statements like “If you do X, I will”. Violations of this policy include, but are not limited to:
threatening to kill someone;&nbsp;threatening to sexually assault someone;threatening to seriously hurt someone and/or commit a other violent act that could lead to someone’s death or serious physical injury; andasking for or offering a financial reward in exchange for inflicting violence on a specific person or group of people.

&nbsp;
What is not a violation of this policy?

 &nbsp;


We recognize that some people use violent language as part of hyperbolic speech or between friends, so&nbsp; we also allow some forms of violent speech where it’s clear that there is no abusive or violent intent, e.g., “I’ll kill you for sending me that plot spoiler!”.&nbsp;


This policy is enforced in tandem with our policies on abusive behavior and hateful conduct. Statements that express a wish or hope that someone experiences physical harm, making vague or indirect threats, or threatening actions that are unlikely to cause serious or lasting injury are not actionable under this policy, but may be reviewed and actioned under those policies. Note: we also have a policy against encouraging self-harm and suicide.




Who can report violations of this policy?

 &nbsp;


Anyone can report potential violations of this policy, whether they have a Twitter account or not.&nbsp;

&nbsp;
How can I report violations of this policy?

&nbsp;


In-app


You can report this content for review in-app as follows:
Select Report Tweet from the&nbsp; 
  
  
 icon.Select It’s abusive or harmful.Select Threatening violence or physical harm.Select the relevant option depending on who you are reporting on behalf of.Select up to 5 Tweets to report for review.Submit your report.

&nbsp;


Desktop


You can report this content for review via desktop as follows:
Select Report Tweet from the&nbsp; 
  
  
 icon.Select It’s abusive or harmful.Select Threatening violence or physical harm.Select the relevant option depending on who you are reporting on behalf of.Select up to 5 Tweets to report for review.Submit your report.

&nbsp;


Report form


You can also report this content for review via our abusive behavior reporting form, by selecting the&nbsp;Specific violent threats involving physical safety or well-being option.

&nbsp;
What happens if you violate this policy?

 &nbsp;


We will immediately and permanently suspend any account found to be posting violent threats.


In rare cases, we may not suspend an account immediately. For example, if the reported content is a form of hyperbolic speech. In such cases, we may require you to remove this content. We may also temporarily lock you out of your account before you can Tweet again. If you continue to violate this policy after receiving a warning, your account will be permanently suspended. If you believe that your account was suspended in error, you can submit an appeal.




Additional resources

 &nbsp;


Learn more about our range of enforcement options and our approach to policy development and enforcement.

  



  
      
      
      
      















  
      
      
      
      


















  
    
      
        
        
          Share this article
        
        
      
    
  





  
      
      
      
      











  
  
      
         
  

      
      Tweet
  
  
  



  
      
      
      
      




  
  
          
        
      
    
  
  
  



















  
     
  
  

  




    





  


  







  
  
  

  
  
    
      
        
          
            
            
              Twitter platform
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Twitter.com
                
              
            
              
                
                  Status
                
              
            
              
                
                  Card validator
                
              
            
              
                
                  Embed a Tweet
                
              
            
              
                
                  Privacy Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Transparency Center
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Twitter, Inc.
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  About the company
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for Good
                
              
            
              
                
                  Company news
                
              
            
              
                
                  Brand toolkit
                
              
            
              
                
                  Jobs and internships
                
              
            
              
                
                  Investors
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Help
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Help Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Using Twitter
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter Media
                
              
            
              
                
                  Ads Help Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Managing your account
                
              
            
              
                
                  Email Preference Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Rules and policies
                
              
            
              
                
                  Contact us
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Developer resources
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Developer home
                
              
            
              
                
                  Documentation
                
              
            
              
                
                  Forums
                
              
            
              
                
                  Communities
                
              
            
              
                
                  Developer blog
                
              
            
              
                
                  Engineering blog
                
              
            
              
                
                  Developer terms
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Business resources
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Advertise
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for business
                
              
            
              
                
                  Resources and guides
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for marketers
                
              
            
              
                
                  Marketing insights
                
              
            
              
                
                  Brand inspiration
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter Flight School
                
              
            
          
        
      

      
        
          
            
              © 2021 Twitter, Inc.
            
          
          
            
              
                Cookies
              
            
          
            
              
                Privacy
              
            
          
            
              
                Terms and conditions
              
            
          
          
            



  
    English
     
  

  

  
    
       
  
  

      Help Center
    
    
      
 

      
 

    
    
      
        
          
          
            
              English
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Español
            
          
        
          
          
            
              日本語
            
          
        
          
          
            
              한국어
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Português
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Deutsch
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Türkçe
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Français
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Italiano
            
          
        
          
          
            
              العربيّة
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Nederlands
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Bahasa Indonesia
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Русский
            
          
        
          
          
            
              हिंदी
            
          
        
          
          
            
              עברית
            
          
        
          
          
            
              简体中文
            
          
        
          
          
            
              繁體中文
            
          
        
          
          
            
              ภาษาไทย
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Tiếng Anh
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Melayu
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Filipino
            
          
        
          
          
            
              فارسی‌
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Dansk
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Suomi
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Svenska
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Norsk
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Polski
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Magyar
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Română
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Čeština
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Ελληνικά
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Українська
            
          
        
          
          
            
              मदत केंद्र
            
          
        
          
          
            
              உதவி மையம்
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Български
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Català
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Hrvatski
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Српски
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Slovenčina
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Kannada
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Pashto
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Dari
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
      
    
  



          
        
      
    
  
  




  















    
















  

    
    
      

  

  
  

  
    
      

        
          


            By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads.

          
        

        
          
            OK
          
        

      
    
  


    

    
    

  

  
  
    






















    









  


