



  
    










Our range of enforcement options for violations | Twitter Help









  
  


























      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      















  















    
    

    
















































    







  
  
    








  














  






  


















  
    
      
        
          Skip to main content
          
            
              
                
                 
  
  

                
                  Help Center
                
              
            

            
          

          
          
            
          

          
            
          
        
      
    
  




  








  











    
    


































  
    
      
        
          
            
  
  
  
      
      
      
      












  
  
  









  
      
      
      
      


















  
    
      
        
        
          Our range of enforcement options
        
        
      
    
  





  
      
      
      
      















  
  
          
        
      
    
  
  
  





































  
    
      
        
          
            
  
  
  
      
      
      
      














  

When we take enforcement actions, we may do so either on a specific piece of content (e.g., an individual Tweet or Direct Message) or on an account. We may employ a combination of these options. In some instances, this is because the behavior violates the Twitter Rules. Other times, it may be in response to a valid and properly scoped request from an authorized entity in a given country. Below are some of the enforcement actions that we may take.

&nbsp;
Tweet-level enforcement




We take action at the Tweet level to ensure that we are not being overly harsh with an otherwise healthy account that made a mistake and violated our rules. A few of the ways in which we might take action at the Tweet level include:


Labeling a Tweet that may contain disputed or misleading information: Our current misleading information policies cover: synthetic and manipulated media, COVID-19, and civic integrity. If we determine a Tweet contains misleading or disputed information per our policies that could lead to harm, we may add a label to the content to provide context and additional information.


Limiting Tweet visibility: This makes content less visible on Twitter,&nbsp;either by making Tweets ineligible for amplification in Top search results and on timelines for users who don’t follow the Tweet author, by downranking Tweets in replies (except when the user follows the Tweet author), and/or excluding Tweets and/or accounts in email or in-product recommendations. Limiting Tweet visibility depends on a number of signals about the nature of the interaction and the type of the content.


Requiring Tweet removal: When we determine that a Tweet violated the Twitter Rules, we require the violator to remove it before they can Tweet again. We send an email notification to the violator identifying the Tweet(s) in violation and which policies have been violated. They will then need to go through the process of removing the violating Tweet or appealing our review if they believe we made an error.


Hiding a violating Tweet while awaiting its removal: In the interim period between when Twitter takes enforcement action and the person removes the Tweet, we hide that Tweet from public view and will replace the original content with a notice stating that the Tweet is no longer available because it violated our Rules. Additionally, this notice will be available for 14 days after the Tweet is removed.

&nbsp;


Where this notice is available:
The details page of the Tweet in violation on Twitter for iOS and Android, and twitter.com.The profile page of the account in violation on Twitter for iOS and Android, and twitter.com.

&nbsp;


Where this notice is not available:
Areas outside of profiles and Tweet details pages, such as Home timeline, notifications, and search of any Twitter client.

&nbsp;


Notice of public interest exception: In rare cases, we may determine that it is in the public interest for a Tweet that would otherwise be in violation of our rules to remain accessible on our service. Learn more about the public interest exception.&nbsp;


When we make such an exception, we’ll place the Tweet behind a notice explaining the exception and giving you the option to view the Tweet if you wish.&nbsp;&nbsp;

&nbsp;


When applying the notice, we’ll also take the following actions to reduce the Tweet’s visibility on our service:&nbsp;
We’ll turn off engagements like replies, Retweets, and likes. If you want to talk about it, you can still Quote Tweet.&nbsp;We won’t show any engagement counts on the Tweet (e.g. number of likes, replies), but any prior engagements can be undone (e.g. unliked, Retweets undone).&nbsp;Any previous replies will not be viewable within the Tweet details.

&nbsp;


Additionally, in order to minimize potential harm, Tweets that are placed behind the notice will not be available in the following areas of Twitter:


Tweets in the “Top Tweets” Home timelineSafe searchRecommendations via push and Notifications tabEmail and text recommendationsLive event timelineExplore tab

&nbsp;
Direct Message-level enforcement




Stopping conversations between a reported violator and the reporter’s account: In a private Direct Message conversation, when a participant reports the other person, we will stop the violator from sending messages to the person who reported them. The conversation will also be removed from the reporter's inbox. However, if the reporter decides to continue to send Direct Messages to the violator, the conversation will resume.


Placing a Direct Message behind a notice: In a group Direct Message conversation, the violating Direct Message may be placed behind a notice to ensure no one else in the group can see it again.




Account-level enforcement




We take action at the account level if we determine that a person has violated the Twitter Rules in a particularly egregious way, or has repeatedly violated them even after receiving notifications from us.


Requiring media or profile edits: If an account’s profile or media content is not compliant with our policies, we may make it temporarily unavailable and require that the violator edit the media or information in their profile to come into compliance.&nbsp;We also explain which policy their profile or media content has violated.




Placing an account in read-only mode: If it seems like an otherwise healthy account is in the middle of an abusive episode, we might temporarily make their account read-only, limiting their ability to Tweet, Retweet, or Like content until calmer heads prevail. The person can read their timelines and will only be able to send Direct Messages to their followers.


When an account is in read-only mode, others will still be able to see and engage with the account. The duration of this enforcement action can range from 12 hours to 7 days, depending on the nature of the violation.


Verifying account ownership: To ensure that violators do not abuse the anonymity we offer and harass others on the platform, we may require the account owner to verify ownership with a phone number or email address. This also helps us identify violators who are operating multiple accounts for abusive purposes and take action on such accounts.&nbsp;Note that when an account has been locked pending completion of a challenge (such as being required to provide a phone number), it is removed from follower counts, Retweets, and likes until it provides a phone number.




Permanent suspension: This is our most severe enforcement action. Permanently suspending an account will remove it from global view, and the violator will not be allowed to create new accounts.&nbsp;When we permanently suspend an account, we notify people that they have been suspended for abuse violations, and explain which policy or policies they have violated and which content was in violation.




Violators can appeal permanent suspensions if they believe we made an error. They can do this through the platform interface or by filing a report.&nbsp;Upon appeal, if we find that a suspension is valid, we respond to the appeal with information on the policy that the account has violated.




Actions we may take against non-violating content




Placing a Tweet behind a notice: We may place some forms of sensitive media like adult content or graphic violence behind an interstitial advising viewers to be aware that they will see sensitive media if they click through. This allows us to identify potentially sensitive content that some people may not wish to see. Learn more about how to control whether you see sensitive media.


Withholding a Tweet or account in a country: We may withhold access to certain content in a particular country if we receive a valid and properly scoped request from an authorized entity in that country. We also clearly indicate within the product when content has been withheld. Read more about country withheld content.

  



  
      
      
      
      















  
      
      
      
      


















  
    
      
        
        
          Share this article
        
        
      
    
  





  
      
      
      
      











  
  
      
         
  

      
      Tweet
  
  
  



  
      
      
      
      




  
  
          
        
      
    
  
  
  



















  
     
  
  

  




    





  


  







  
  
  

  
  
    
      
        
          
            
            
              Twitter platform
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Twitter.com
                
              
            
              
                
                  Status
                
              
            
              
                
                  Card validator
                
              
            
              
                
                  Embed a Tweet
                
              
            
              
                
                  Privacy Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Transparency Center
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Twitter, Inc.
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  About the company
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for Good
                
              
            
              
                
                  Company news
                
              
            
              
                
                  Brand toolkit
                
              
            
              
                
                  Jobs and internships
                
              
            
              
                
                  Investors
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Help
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Help Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Using Twitter
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter Media
                
              
            
              
                
                  Ads Help Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Managing your account
                
              
            
              
                
                  Email Preference Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Rules and policies
                
              
            
              
                
                  Contact us
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Developer resources
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Developer home
                
              
            
              
                
                  Documentation
                
              
            
              
                
                  Forums
                
              
            
              
                
                  Communities
                
              
            
              
                
                  Developer blog
                
              
            
              
                
                  Engineering blog
                
              
            
              
                
                  Developer terms
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Business resources
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Advertise
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for business
                
              
            
              
                
                  Resources and guides
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for marketers
                
              
            
              
                
                  Marketing insights
                
              
            
              
                
                  Brand inspiration
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter Flight School
                
              
            
          
        
      

      
        
          
            
              © 2021 Twitter, Inc.
            
          
          
            
              
                Cookies
              
            
          
            
              
                Privacy
              
            
          
            
              
                Terms and conditions
              
            
          
          
            



  
    English
     
  

  

  
    
       
  
  

      Help Center
    
    
      
 

      
 

    
    
      
        
          
          
            
              English
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Español
            
          
        
          
          
            
              日本語
            
          
        
          
          
            
              한국어
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Português
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Deutsch
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Türkçe
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Français
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Italiano
            
          
        
          
          
            
              العربيّة
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Nederlands
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Bahasa Indonesia
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Русский
            
          
        
          
          
            
              हिंदी
            
          
        
          
          
            
              עברית
            
          
        
          
          
            
              简体中文
            
          
        
          
          
            
              繁體中文
            
          
        
          
          
            
              ภาษาไทย
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Tiếng Anh
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Melayu
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Filipino
            
          
        
          
          
            
              فارسی‌
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Dansk
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Suomi
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Svenska
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Norsk
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Polski
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Magyar
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Română
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Čeština
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Ελληνικά
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Українська
            
          
        
          
          
            
              मदत केंद्र
            
          
        
          
          
            
              உதவி மையம்
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Български
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Català
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Hrvatski
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Српски
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Slovenčina
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Kannada
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Pashto
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Dari
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
      
    
  



          
        
      
    
  
  




  















    
















  

    
    
      

  

  
  

  
    
      

        
          


            By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads.

          
        

        
          
            OK
          
        

      
    
  


    

    
    

  

  
  
    






















    









  


