



  
    










Our synthetic and manipulated media policy | Twitter Help









  
  


























      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      















  















    
    

    
















































    







  
  
    








  














  






  


















  
    
      
        
          Skip to main content
          
            
              
                
                 
  
  

                
                  Help Center
                
              
            

            
          

          
          
            
          

          
            
          
        
      
    
  




  








  











    
    


































  
    
      
        
          
            
  
  
  
      
      
      
      












  
  
  









  
      
      
      
      


















  
    
      
        
        
          Synthetic and manipulated media policy
        
        
      
    
  





  
      
      
      
      















  
  
          
        
      
    
  
  
  





































  
    
      
        
          
            
  
  
  
      
      
      
      














  Overview

&nbsp;


You may not deceptively promote synthetic or manipulated media that are likely to cause harm. In addition, we may label Tweets containing synthetic and manipulated media to help people understand their authenticity and to provide additional context.


You should be able to find reliable information on Twitter. That means understanding whether the content you see is real or fabricated and having the ability to find more context about what you see on Twitter. Therefore, we may label Tweets that include media (videos, audio, and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated. In addition, you may not share deceptively altered media on Twitter in ways that mislead or deceive people about the media's authenticity where threats to physical safety or other serious harm may result.


We use the following criteria as we consider Tweets and media for labeling or removal under this policy as part of our ongoing work to enforce our rules and ensure healthy and safe conversation on Twitter (additional information is available below):

  



  
      
      
      
      









  
  
  
  

  
    
      
        
  
  
  
    
    
    
    
    

    
  

  

      
    

    
  



  
      
      
      
      














  1. Is the content synthetic or manipulated?

 &nbsp;


In order for content to be labeled or removed under this policy, we must have reason to believe that media, or the context in which media are presented, are significantly and deceptively altered or manipulated. Synthetic and manipulated media take many different forms and people can employ a wide range of technologies to produce these media. In assessing whether media have been significantly and deceptively altered or fabricated, some of the factors we consider include:
whether the content has been substantially edited in a manner that fundamentally alters its composition, sequence, timing, or framing;&nbsp;any visual or auditory information (such as new video frames, overdubbed audio, or modified subtitles) that has been added or removed; andwhether media depicting a real person have been fabricated or simulated

&nbsp;


We are most likely to take action (either labeling or removal, as described below) on more significant forms of alteration, such as wholly synthetic audio or video or content that has been doctored (spliced and reordered, slowed down) to change its meaning. Subtler forms of manipulated media, such as isolative editing, omission of context, or presentation with false context, may be labeled or removed on a case-by-case basis.&nbsp;


We will not take action to label or remove media that have been edited in ways that do not fundamentally alter their meaning, such as retouched photos or color-corrected videos.&nbsp;


In order to determine if media have been significantly and deceptively altered or fabricated, we may use our own technology or receive reports through partnerships with third parties. In situations where we are unable to reliably determine if media have been altered or fabricated, we may not take action to label or remove them.

&nbsp;
2. Is the content shared in a deceptive manner?

 &nbsp;


We also consider whether the context in which media are shared could result in confusion or misunderstanding or suggests a deliberate intent to deceive people about the nature or origin of the content, for example by falsely claiming that it depicts reality. We assess the context provided alongside media to see whether it makes clear that the media have been altered or fabricated. Some of the types of context we assess in order to make this determination include:
The text of the Tweet accompanying or within mediaMetadata associated with media&nbsp;Information on the profile of the account sharing mediaWebsites linked in the Tweet, or in the profile of the account sharing media

&nbsp;
3. Is the content likely to impact public safety or cause serious harm?

 &nbsp;


Tweets that share synthetic and manipulated media are subject to removal under this policy if they are likely to cause serious harm. Some specific harms we consider include:
Threats to the physical safety of a person or groupRisk of mass violence or widespread civil unrestThreats to the privacy or ability of a person or group to freely express themselves or participate in civic events, such as:Stalking or unwanted and obsessive attentionTargeted content that includes tropes, epithets, or material that aims to silence someoneVoter suppression or intimidation

&nbsp;



While we have other rules also intended to address these forms of harm, including our policies on violent threats, election integrity, and hateful conduct, we will err toward removal in borderline cases that might otherwise not violate existing rules for Tweets that include synthetic or manipulated media.


We also consider the time frame within which the content may be likely to impact public safety or cause serious harm, and are more likely to remove content under this policy if we find that immediate harms are likely to result from the content’s presence on Twitter.

  



  
      
      
      
      














  

Note: We may also take action on synthetic and manipulated content under our non-consensual nudity policy (such as pornographic media altered to insert the faces of people not actually involved) or other parts of the Twitter Rules.&nbsp;

  



  
      
      
      
      














  Labeling and removal

 &nbsp;


In most cases, if we have reason to believe that media shared in a Tweet have been significantly and deceptively altered or&nbsp;fabricated, we will provide additional context on Tweets sharing the media where they appear on Twitter. This means we may:
Apply a label to the content where it appears in the Twitter product;Show a warning to people before they share or like the content;Reduce the visibility of the content on Twitter and/or prevent it from being recommended;&nbsp;Provide a link to additional explanations or clarifications, such as in a Twitter Moment or landing page;&nbsp;and/orTurn off likes, replies, and Retweets.

&nbsp;


In most cases, we will take all of the above actions on Tweets we label.


Media that meet all three of the criteria defined above—i.e. that are synthetic or manipulated, shared in a deceptive manner, and is likely to cause harm—may not be shared on Twitter and are subject to removal. Accounts engaging in repeated or severe violations of this policy may be permanently suspended.


&nbsp;


* Other parts of the Twitter Rules apply and may lead to the removal of the content, particularly where there is high likelihood of severe harm, such as a threat to someone’s life or physical safety.

  



  
      
      
      
      















  
      
      
      
      


















  
    
      
        
        
          Share this article
        
        
      
    
  





  
      
      
      
      











  
  
      
         
  

      
      Tweet
  
  
  



  
      
      
      
      




  
  
          
        
      
    
  
  
  



















  
     
  
  

  




    





  


  







  
  
  

  
  
    
      
        
          
            
            
              Twitter platform
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Twitter.com
                
              
            
              
                
                  Status
                
              
            
              
                
                  Card validator
                
              
            
              
                
                  Embed a Tweet
                
              
            
              
                
                  Privacy Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Transparency Center
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Twitter, Inc.
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  About the company
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for Good
                
              
            
              
                
                  Company news
                
              
            
              
                
                  Brand toolkit
                
              
            
              
                
                  Jobs and internships
                
              
            
              
                
                  Investors
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Help
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Help Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Using Twitter
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter Media
                
              
            
              
                
                  Ads Help Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Managing your account
                
              
            
              
                
                  Email Preference Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Rules and policies
                
              
            
              
                
                  Contact us
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Developer resources
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Developer home
                
              
            
              
                
                  Documentation
                
              
            
              
                
                  Forums
                
              
            
              
                
                  Communities
                
              
            
              
                
                  Developer blog
                
              
            
              
                
                  Engineering blog
                
              
            
              
                
                  Developer terms
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Business resources
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Advertise
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for business
                
              
            
              
                
                  Resources and guides
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for marketers
                
              
            
              
                
                  Marketing insights
                
              
            
              
                
                  Brand inspiration
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter Flight School
                
              
            
          
        
      

      
        
          
            
              © 2021 Twitter, Inc.
            
          
          
            
              
                Cookies
              
            
          
            
              
                Privacy
              
            
          
            
              
                Terms and conditions
              
            
          
          
            



  
    English
     
  

  

  
    
       
  
  

      Help Center
    
    
      
 

      
 

    
    
      
        
          
          
            
              English
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Español
            
          
        
          
          
            
              日本語
            
          
        
          
          
            
              한국어
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Português
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Deutsch
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Türkçe
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Français
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Italiano
            
          
        
          
          
            
              العربيّة
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Nederlands
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Bahasa Indonesia
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Русский
            
          
        
          
          
            
              हिंदी
            
          
        
          
          
            
              עברית
            
          
        
          
          
            
              简体中文
            
          
        
          
          
            
              繁體中文
            
          
        
          
          
            
              ภาษาไทย
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Tiếng Anh
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Melayu
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Filipino
            
          
        
          
          
            
              فارسی‌
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Dansk
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Suomi
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Svenska
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Norsk
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Polski
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Magyar
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Română
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Čeština
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Ελληνικά
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Українська
            
          
        
          
          
            
              मदत केंद्र
            
          
        
          
          
            
              உதவி மையம்
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Български
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Català
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Hrvatski
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Српски
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Slovenčina
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Kannada
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Pashto
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Dari
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
      
    
  



          
        
      
    
  
  




  















    
















  

    
    
      

  

  
  

  
    
      

        
          


            By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads.

          
        

        
          
            OK
          
        

      
    
  


    

    
    

  

  
  
    






















    









  


