



  
    










Twitter's non-consensual nudity policy | Twitter Help









  
  


























      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      















  















    
    

    
















































    







  
  
    








  














  






  


















  
    
      
        
          Skip to main content
          
            
              
                
                 
  
  

                
                  Help Center
                
              
            

            
          

          
          
            
          

          
            
          
        
      
    
  




  








  











    
    


































  
    
      
        
          
            
  
  
  
      
      
      
      












  
  
  









  
      
      
      
      


















  
    
      
        
        
          Non-consensual nudity policy
        
        
      
    
  





  
      
      
      
      















  
  
          
        
      
    
  
  
  





































  
    
      
        
          
            
  
  
  
      
      
      
      














  Overview




November 2019


You may not post or share intimate photos or videos of someone that were produced or distributed without their consent.


Sharing explicit sexual images or videos of someone online without their consent is a severe violation of their privacy and the Twitter Rules. Sometimes referred to as revenge porn, this content poses serious safety and security risks for people affected and can lead to physical, emotional, and financial hardship.




What is a violation of this policy?




Under this policy, you can’t post or share explicit images or videos that were taken, appear to have been taken or that were shared without the consent of the people involved.


Examples of the types of content that violate this policy include, but are not limited to:


hidden camera content featuring nudity, partial nudity, and/or sexual acts;creepshots or upskirts - images or videos taken of people’s buttocks, up an individual’s skirt/dress or other clothes that allows people to see the person’s genitals, buttocks, or breasts;&nbsp;images or videos that superimpose or otherwise digitally manipulate an individual’s face onto another person’s nude body;&nbsp;images or videos that are taken in an intimate setting and not intended for public distribution; andoffering a bounty or financial reward in exchange for intimate images or videos.

&nbsp;
What is not a violation of this policy?




Pornography and other forms of consensually produced adult content are allowed on Twitter, provided that this media is marked as sensitive. Doing so provides people who may not want to see this type of content with a warning that they will need to acknowledge before viewing your media.&nbsp;


To mark your media as sensitive, navigate to your safety settings and select the Mark media you Tweet as containing material that may be sensitive option. If you don’t mark your media as sensitive, we may do so manually if your content is reported for review.&nbsp;




Who can report violations of this policy?




Because Twitter allows some types of adult content, we need to evaluate context to assess if reported content has been created or shared without the consent of those involved.&nbsp;

&nbsp;


Content reportable by anyone


We recognize that it can be difficult for those impacted to report this type of content for review. To reduce the burden on those affected, anyone can report the following types of content:
creepshots or upskirts;content where a bounty or financial reward is offered in exchange for non-consensual nudity media; andintimate images or videos that are accompanied by:text that wishes/hopes for harm to come to those depicted or otherwise refers to revenge e.g., “I hope you get what you deserve when people see this”; andinformation that could be used to contact those depicted e.g., “You can tell my ex what you think by calling them on 1234567”.

&nbsp;


Content reportable by featured individual(s)


For other types of content, we may need to hear directly from the individual(s) featured (or an authorized representative, such as a lawyer) to ensure that we have sufficient context before taking any enforcement action.&nbsp;

&nbsp;
How can I report violations of this policy?




In-app


You can report this content for review in-app as follows:
Select Report Tweet from the&nbsp; 
  
  
 icon.Select It displays a sensitive photo or video.Select An unauthorized photo or video.Select It includes unauthorized, intimate content of me or someone else.Select the relevant option depending on who you are reporting on behalf of.Select up to 5 Tweets to report for review.Submit your report.

&nbsp;


Desktop


You can report this content for review via desktop as follows:
Select Report Tweet from the&nbsp; 
  
  
 icon.Select&nbsp;It displays a sensitive photo or video.Select&nbsp;An unauthorized photo or video.Select&nbsp;It includes unauthorized, intimate content of me or someone else.Select the relevant option depending on who you are reporting on behalf of.Select up to 5 Tweets to report for review.Submit your report.

&nbsp;


Report form




You can also report this content via our private information report form, by selecting the An unauthorized photo or video option.

&nbsp;
What happens if you violate this policy?




We will immediately and permanently suspend any account that we identify as the original poster of intimate media that was created or shared without consent. We will do the same with any account that posts only this type of content, e.g., accounts dedicated to sharing upskirt images.


In other cases, we may not suspend an account immediately. This is because some people share this content inadvertently, to express shock, disbelief or to denounce this practice. In these cases, we will require you to remove this content. We will also temporarily lock you out of your account before you can Tweet again. If you violate this policy again after your first warning, your account will be permanently suspended. If you believe that your account was suspended in error, you can submit an appeal.




Additional resources




Learn more about our range of enforcement options and our approach to policy development and enforcement.

  



  
      
      
      
      















  
      
      
      
      


















  
    
      
        
        
          Share this article
        
        
      
    
  





  
      
      
      
      











  
  
      
         
  

      
      Tweet
  
  
  



  
      
      
      
      




  
  
          
        
      
    
  
  
  



















  
     
  
  

  




    





  


  







  
  
  

  
  
    
      
        
          
            
            
              Twitter platform
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Twitter.com
                
              
            
              
                
                  Status
                
              
            
              
                
                  Card validator
                
              
            
              
                
                  Embed a Tweet
                
              
            
              
                
                  Privacy Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Transparency Center
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Twitter, Inc.
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  About the company
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for Good
                
              
            
              
                
                  Company news
                
              
            
              
                
                  Brand toolkit
                
              
            
              
                
                  Jobs and internships
                
              
            
              
                
                  Investors
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Help
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Help Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Using Twitter
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter Media
                
              
            
              
                
                  Ads Help Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Managing your account
                
              
            
              
                
                  Email Preference Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Rules and policies
                
              
            
              
                
                  Contact us
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Developer resources
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Developer home
                
              
            
              
                
                  Documentation
                
              
            
              
                
                  Forums
                
              
            
              
                
                  Communities
                
              
            
              
                
                  Developer blog
                
              
            
              
                
                  Engineering blog
                
              
            
              
                
                  Developer terms
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Business resources
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Advertise
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for business
                
              
            
              
                
                  Resources and guides
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for marketers
                
              
            
              
                
                  Marketing insights
                
              
            
              
                
                  Brand inspiration
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter Flight School
                
              
            
          
        
      

      
        
          
            
              © 2021 Twitter, Inc.
            
          
          
            
              
                Cookies
              
            
          
            
              
                Privacy
              
            
          
            
              
                Terms and conditions
              
            
          
          
            



  
    English
     
  

  

  
    
       
  
  

      Help Center
    
    
      
 

      
 

    
    
      
        
          
          
            
              English
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Español
            
          
        
          
          
            
              日本語
            
          
        
          
          
            
              한국어
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Português
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Deutsch
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Türkçe
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Français
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Italiano
            
          
        
          
          
            
              العربيّة
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Nederlands
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Bahasa Indonesia
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Русский
            
          
        
          
          
            
              हिंदी
            
          
        
          
          
            
              עברית
            
          
        
          
          
            
              简体中文
            
          
        
          
          
            
              繁體中文
            
          
        
          
          
            
              ภาษาไทย
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Tiếng Anh
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Melayu
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Filipino
            
          
        
          
          
            
              فارسی‌
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Dansk
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Suomi
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Svenska
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Norsk
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Polski
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Magyar
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Română
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Čeština
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Ελληνικά
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Українська
            
          
        
          
          
            
              मदत केंद्र
            
          
        
          
          
            
              உதவி மையம்
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Български
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Català
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Hrvatski
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Српски
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Slovenčina
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Kannada
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Pashto
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Dari
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
      
    
  



          
        
      
    
  
  




  















    
















  

    
    
      

  

  
  

  
    
      

        
          


            By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads.

          
        

        
          
            OK
          
        

      
    
  


    

    
    

  

  
  
    






















    









  


