



  
    










Our policy on violent organizations | Twitter Help









  
  


























      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      















  















    
    

    
















































    







  
  
    








  














  






  


















  
    
      
        
          Skip to main content
          
            
              
                
                 
  
  

                
                  Help Center
                
              
            

            
          

          
          
            
          

          
            
          
        
      
    
  




  








  











    
    


































  
    
      
        
          
            
  
  
  
      
      
      
      












  
  
  









  
      
      
      
      


















  
    
      
        
        
          Violent organizations policy
        
        
      
    
  





  
      
      
      
      















  
  
          
        
      
    
  
  
  





































  
    
      
        
          
            
  
  
  
      
      
      
      














  Overview




October 2020


There is no place on Twitter for violent organizations, including terrorist organizations, violent extremist groups, or individuals who affiliate with and promote their illicit activities. The violence that these groups engage in and/or promote jeopardizes the physical safety and well-being of those targeted. Our assessments under this policy are informed by national and international terrorism designations, as well as our violent extremist group and violent organizations criteria.

&nbsp;


You may not threaten or promote terrorism or violent extremism.&nbsp;


Violent extremist groups are those that meet all of the below criteria:


identify through their stated purpose, publications, or actions as an extremist group;have engaged in, or currently engage in, violence and/or the promotion of violence as a means to further their cause; andtarget civilians in their acts and/or promotion of violence.

&nbsp;


Other violent organizations




Other violent organizations are those that meet all of the below criteria:
a collection of individuals with a shared purpose; andhave systematically targeted civilians with violence.&nbsp;


We examine a group’s activities both on and off Twitter to determine whether they satisfy the above criteria.

&nbsp;
What is in violation of this policy?




Under this policy, you can’t affiliate with and promote the illicit activities of a terrorist organization or violent extremist group. Examples of the types of content that violate this policy include, but are not limited to:
engaging in or promoting acts on behalf of a violent organization;recruiting for a violent organization;providing or distributing services (e.g., financial, media/propaganda) to further a violent organization’s stated goals; andusing the insignia or symbol of violent organizations to promote them or indicate affiliation or support.

&nbsp;
What is not a violation of this policy?




We may make limited exceptions for groups that have reformed or are currently engaging in a peaceful resolution process, as well as groups with representatives who have been elected to public office through democratic elections. We may also make exceptions related to the discussion of terrorism or extremism for clearly educational or documentary purposes. This policy also doesn’t apply&nbsp;to state or governmental organizations.

&nbsp;
Who can report violations of this policy?




Anyone can report potential violations of this policy, whether they have a Twitter account or not.&nbsp;

&nbsp;
How can I report violations of this policy?




In-app


You can report this content for review in-app on iOS as follows:
Select Report Tweet from the&nbsp; 
  
  
 icon.Select It’s abusive or harmful.Select Threatening violence or physical harm.Select the relevant option depending on who you are reporting on behalf of.Select up to 5 Tweets to report for review.Submit your report.

&nbsp;


Desktop


You can report this content for review via desktop as follows:
Select Report Tweet from the&nbsp; 
  
  
 icon.Select It’s abusive or harmful.Select Threatening violence or physical harm.Select the relevant option depending on who you are reporting on behalf of.Select up to 5 Tweets to report for review.Submit your report.

&nbsp;


Report form


You can also report this content for review via our abusive behavior reporting form, by selecting the Specific violent threats involving physical safety or well-being option.&nbsp;

&nbsp;
What happens if you violate this policy?




We will immediately and permanently suspend any account that we determine to be in violation of this policy. If you believe that your account was suspended in error, you can submit an appeal.

&nbsp;
Additional resources




Learn more about our range of enforcement options and our approach to policy development and enforcement.


To learn more about violations related to specific threats of violence or incidents involving wishing for the serious physical harm, death, or disease of an individual or group of people, please see our glorification of violence policy.

  



  
      
      
      
      















  
      
      
      
      


















  
    
      
        
        
          Share this article
        
        
      
    
  





  
      
      
      
      











  
  
      
         
  

      
      Tweet
  
  
  



  
      
      
      
      




  
  
          
        
      
    
  
  
  



















  
     
  
  

  




    





  


  







  
  
  

  
  
    
      
        
          
            
            
              Twitter platform
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Twitter.com
                
              
            
              
                
                  Status
                
              
            
              
                
                  Card validator
                
              
            
              
                
                  Embed a Tweet
                
              
            
              
                
                  Privacy Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Transparency Center
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Twitter, Inc.
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  About the company
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for Good
                
              
            
              
                
                  Company news
                
              
            
              
                
                  Brand toolkit
                
              
            
              
                
                  Jobs and internships
                
              
            
              
                
                  Investors
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Help
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Help Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Using Twitter
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter Media
                
              
            
              
                
                  Ads Help Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Managing your account
                
              
            
              
                
                  Email Preference Center
                
              
            
              
                
                  Rules and policies
                
              
            
              
                
                  Contact us
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Developer resources
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Developer home
                
              
            
              
                
                  Documentation
                
              
            
              
                
                  Forums
                
              
            
              
                
                  Communities
                
              
            
              
                
                  Developer blog
                
              
            
              
                
                  Engineering blog
                
              
            
              
                
                  Developer terms
                
              
            
          
        
          
            
            
              Business resources
              
                 
  

              
            
            
            
              
                
                  Advertise
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for business
                
              
            
              
                
                  Resources and guides
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter for marketers
                
              
            
              
                
                  Marketing insights
                
              
            
              
                
                  Brand inspiration
                
              
            
              
                
                  Twitter Flight School
                
              
            
          
        
      

      
        
          
            
              © 2021 Twitter, Inc.
            
          
          
            
              
                Cookies
              
            
          
            
              
                Privacy
              
            
          
            
              
                Terms and conditions
              
            
          
          
            



  
    English
     
  

  

  
    
       
  
  

      Help Center
    
    
      
 

      
 

    
    
      
        
          
          
            
              English
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Español
            
          
        
          
          
            
              日本語
            
          
        
          
          
            
              한국어
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Português
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Deutsch
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Türkçe
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Français
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Italiano
            
          
        
          
          
            
              العربيّة
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Nederlands
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Bahasa Indonesia
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Русский
            
          
        
          
          
            
              हिंदी
            
          
        
          
          
            
              עברית
            
          
        
          
          
            
              简体中文
            
          
        
          
          
            
              繁體中文
            
          
        
          
          
            
              ภาษาไทย
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Tiếng Anh
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Melayu
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Filipino
            
          
        
          
          
            
              فارسی‌
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Dansk
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Suomi
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Svenska
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Norsk
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Polski
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Magyar
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Română
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Čeština
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Ελληνικά
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Українська
            
          
        
          
          
            
              मदत केंद्र
            
          
        
          
          
            
              உதவி மையம்
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Български
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Català
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Hrvatski
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Српски
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Slovenčina
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Kannada
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Pashto
            
          
        
          
          
            
              Dari
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
          
          
            
              
            
          
        
      
    
  



          
        
      
    
  
  




  















    
















  

    
    
      

  

  
  

  
    
      

        
          


            By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads.

          
        

        
          
            OK
          
        

      
    
  


    

    
    

  

  
  
    






















    









  


