



    
    

        

    


    




    

    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    

    
    



















    
    










Alpine Skiing - News, Athletes, Highlights &amp; More






		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		









	
	
	
		









	

			


















	


	
	


	


	
	


















	

























    
    
    
    
    

    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    

        
    
    

            
            
            
            
            


            


            
            
    



        


    








            




    













  

    
        Skip to main content






  
    

  




        
            IOC

        
        
            Beijing 2022

        
        
            Paris 2024

        
        
            Milano Cortina 2026

        
        
            LA 2028

        
        
            Brisbane 2032

        
        
            Museum

        
        
            Shop

        

  
    




    








  Select your language

  
    
      English
    
    
        English
        Français
        Deutsch
        Italiano
        Português
        Español
        日本語
        العربية
        中文
        हिंदी
        한국어
        Русский
    
  

  


  



  
    
  

  




        
            Olympic Games

                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                Loading...
                            
                        
                    
                
        
        
            Athletes

        
        
            Sports

        
        
            News

                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                Loading...
                            
                        
                    
                
        
        
            Olympic Channel

        

  
    




  







  

      
        
        
        
      
  






    
        
            
                
                Loading...
            
        

        
        
    

  

        
            






  






  
    
      
        
          
            
          
        
          
            
          
      
      
        Alpine Skiing
          
            In association with
            
              
              
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            Olympic Debut
            Garmisch-Partenkirchen 1936
          
                  
            Most Gold Medals
            Kjetil André Aamodt (NOR)
          
                      

        More info

    
  







    








    
        
            
                Alpine Skiing spotlight
            
        
        
                        
                            Alpine SkiingOlympic Alpine skiing at Beijing 2022: Top five things to knowBeijing 2022 | Olympic Winter games
                        
                        
                            Alpine SkiingMadagascar’s skiing pioneer Mialitiana Clerc: “I want to inspire Africans”
                        
                        
                            What's happening this week in the world of skiing?Beijing 2022 | Olympic Winter games
                        
                        
                            Alpine SkiingMikaela Shiffrin delights home fans with Killington slalom victoryBeijing 2022 | Olympic Winter games
                        
                        
                            Alpine SkiingMatthias Mayer wins World Cup downhill opener at Lake Louise
                        

        

            
                
                    
                        
                    
                
            
            
                            
                                Alpine SkiingKillington giant slalom World Cup cancelled due to high winds
                            
                            
                                Alpine SkiingVincent Kriechmayr: Five things to know about Alpine skiing's king of speed&nbsp;&nbsp;Beijing 2022 | Olympic Winter games
                            
                            
                                Mikaela SHIFFRINMikaela Shiffrin: It’s hard to say that everything is betterBeijing 2022 | Olympic Winter games
                            
                            
                                Asa MILLERFilipino skier Asa Miller to compete in second straight Winter OlympicsBeijing 2022 | Olympic Winter games
                            
                            
                                Alpine SkiingPetra Vlhová: Relishing role of being an idolBeijing 2022 | Olympic Winter games
                            

            

    






	

		
			
				Olympic Channel
			
			
				Discover &amp; relive past events, watch Original Films &amp; Series related to Alpine Skiing in Olympic Channel
			
		


		
			





    
        
            
                Alpine Skiing events
                    
                        View all
                        
                    
            
        
    

    
        
            
                
                    
                    
                        
                          
                            
                              Alpine Skiing
                                
                                  
                                
                            
                            10 - 11 Dec
                            Alpine Skiing | World Cup | St. Moritz
                          

                            
                                
                            
                        
                    
            
                
            
          
      








    
        
            
                Related Originals
                    
                        View all
                        
                    
            
            
                
                        
                            
                                
                                

                                
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
                                

                                
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
                                

                                
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
                                

                                
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
                                

                                
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
                                

                                
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                
            
        
    


				
			
	



  






    










  
    
      History of
      Alpine Skiing
    

    
            
              



Skiing has an ancient history. The birth of modern downhill skiing is often dated to the 1850s, when Norwegian legend Sondre Norheim popularised skis with curved sides, bindings with stiff heel bands made of willow, as well as the Telemark and Christiania (slalom) turns.
            
            
              Ancient Origins
            
            
              

Skiing can be traced to prehistoric times by the discovery of varying sizes and shapes of wooden planks preserved in peat bogs in Russia, Finland, Sweden and Norway. Ski fragments discovered in Russia have been carbon-dated back to circa 8000-7000 BC. It is virtually certain that a form of skiing has been an integral part of life in colder countries for thousands of years.
            
            
              First Competitions
            
            
              

Skiing changed from a method of transportation into a sporting activity during the late 19th century. The first non-military skiing competitions are reported to have been held in the 1840s in northern and central Norway. The first national skiing competition in Norway, held in the capital Christiania (now Oslo) and won by Sondre Norheim, in 1868, is regarded as the beginning of a new era of skiing enthusiasm. A few decades later, the sport spread to the remainder of Europe and to the U.S., where miners held skiing competitions to entertain themselves during the winter. The first slalom competition was organised by Sir Arnold Lunn in 1922 in Mürren, Switzerland.
            
            
              Olympic Growth
            
            
              

Men’s and women’s Alpine skiing both debuted on the Olympic programme in 1936 at Garmisch-Partenkirchen. The only event that year was a combined competition of both downhill and slalom. In 1948, this was held along with separate downhill and slalom races. Four years later, the giant slalom was added, and in 1988, the super giant slalom became a fourth separate event.
            
            
              


            



        
          
            
          
        
    
  






  









        







    
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            
                        
                    

                    
                        




	
        
Olympic Games        
        
Beijing 2022        
        
Results &amp; Medals        
        
Replays &amp; Highlights        
        
All Olympic Games        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
Olympic Channel        
        
TV Channel        
        
Live Events        
        
Original Series        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
News        
        
Podcast        
        
Topics        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
Explore        
        
Athletes        
        
Sports        
	


                    

                    
                        




	
        
More        
        
International Olympic Committee        
        
Museum        
        
Shop        
        
About Us        
        
Contact Centre        
        
Sitemap        
        
Careers        
	


                    

                    

                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    
                        


  

        
          
              
          
        
        
          
              
          
        

  


                        




	
        
menu-to-hide-DO-NOT-REMOVE        
        
Cookie Policy        
        
Cookie Settings        
        
Privacy Policy        
        
Terms of Service        
	


                        

  
    

            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            
            
              
                  
              
            

    
  
                    
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            TM © 2021 – International Olympic Committee – All Rights Reserved.
                        
                    
                
            
        
    


    

    








    


















    








    









		
		








	
	









    







    






  









        
        








        
        
        



    

    

        
            





